Jesus said these things, then lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, “Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may also glorify you.” The Father, he said, gave him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all the Father had given him, and this is eternal life, to know the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom he sent. “I glorified you on the earth. I have accomplished the work which you have given me to do. Now, Father, glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the world existed.”

He prayed for those the Father gave him out of the world, not for the world. They had kept the Father’s word, received the words he gave them, and knew for sure that he came from the Father, and he was glorified in them. He was no more in the world, but they were in the world. “Holy Father, keep them through your name which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are.”

While he was with them, he said, he kept them in the Father’s name, and none of them was lost except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled. Now he was coming to the Father, and he said these things that they might have his joy made full in themselves. He had given them the Father’s word, and the world hated them.

“I pray not that you would take them from the world, but that you would keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in your truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, even so I have sent them into the world. For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.”

He prayed also for those who would believe in him through their word, that they might all be one, as the Father was in him and he in the Father, that the world might believe that the Father sent him; and he had given them the glory the Father gave him, that they might be perfected into one, and that the world might know that the Father loved them, even as he loved him.

“Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, that they may see my glory which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. Righteous Father, the world hasn’t known you, but I knew you; and these knew that you sent me. I made known to them your name, and will make it known; that the love with which you loved me may be in them, and I in them.”
