These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, “Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee.” The Father, he said, gave him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as the Father gave him; and this is life eternal, to know the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom he sent. “I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was.”

He prayed for the men the Father gave him out of the world, not for the world. They had kept the Father’s word, received the words he gave them, and known surely that he came out from the Father, and he was glorified in them. He was no more in the world, but these were in the world. “Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.”

While he was with them, he said, he kept them in the Father’s name, and none of them was lost, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled. Now he came to the Father, and these things he spake that they might have his joy fulfilled in themselves. He had given them the Father’s word, and the world hated them.

“I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth.”

He prayed also for them which should believe on him through their word, that they all might be one, as the Father was in him and he in the Father, that the world might believe that the Father sent him; and the glory which the Father gave him he had given them, that they might be made perfect in one, and that the world might know that the Father loved them, as he loved him.

“Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.”
