Now Naaman, captain of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master and honorable, because by him the Lord had given victory to Syria. He was also a mighty man of valor. He was a leper.

The Syrians had gone out in bands and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little girl. She waited on Naaman's wife. She said to her mistress, "I wish that my lord were with the prophet who is in Samaria. Then he would cure him of his leprosy."

One told the king of Syria, and the king sent a letter to the king of Israel, saying, "When this letter comes to you, I have sent Naaman my servant to you, that you may cure him of his leprosy." When the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, "Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man sends to me to cure a man of his leprosy?"

When Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent to the king, saying, "Why have you torn your clothes? Let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel."

So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot and stood at the door of the house of Elisha. Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, "Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall come again to you, and you shall be clean."

But Naaman was angry and went away. He said, "I thought he would surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper. Are not Abanah and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean?"

He turned and went away in a rage.

His servants came near and spoke to him. "My father, if the prophet had told you to do some great thing, would you not have done it? How much more then, when he says to you, 'Wash, and be clean'?"

Then he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God.

His flesh came again like the flesh of a little child.