And as Jesus was gone forth into the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, "Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?"

And Jesus said unto him, "Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God. Thou knowest the commandments: Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not, Honour thy father and mother."

And the young man answered and said unto him, "Master, all these have I observed from my youth."

Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, "One thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me."

But his countenance fell at that saying, and he went away grieved: for he had great possessions. The disciples beheld him as he went, and the road stretched on before him toward his fields and his houses.

And Jesus looked round about, and said unto his disciples, "How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!"

And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus answered again, and said unto them, "Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God! It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God."

And they were astonished out of measure, saying among themselves, "Who then can be saved?"

And Jesus, looking upon them, saith, "With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible."

Then Peter began to say unto him, "Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee."

And Jesus answered and said, "Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and the gospel's, but he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time, with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life."

The young man went on his way along the road, and the disciples remained beside Jesus. The afternoon light fell across the dust of the way.
