In the days when King Darius reigned over the kingdom, he set princes and satraps over his realm, appointing an hundred and twenty to rule, and three presidents above them. Among these officers, Daniel was preferred for his excellent spirit. The king beheld his wisdom and skill and thought to set him over the whole realm. This stirred jealousy among the other officials. They sought occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom, any error or fault in the way he handled the affairs thereof, but they found none. He was faithful, neither was there any error or fault found in him.

The officials could find no occasion against Daniel concerning the affairs of the kingdom. They consulted together and said, "We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God." They assembled themselves together and came before King Darius with their device. "O King Darius, live for ever," they said. "All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors, and the princes, the counsellors, and the captains have consulted together to establish a royal statute, and to make a firm decree. That whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save of thee, O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions. Now, O king, establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it be not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not." The king, not perceiving the device, signed the writing and the decree.

Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house. His windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime. Then these men assembled, and found Daniel praying and making supplication before his God. They came near, and spake before the king concerning the king's decree: "Hast thou not signed a decree, that every man that shall ask a petition of any God or man within thirty days, save of thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions?" The king answered, "The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not." Then answered they, "That Daniel, which is of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petition three times a day."

Then the king, when he heard these words, was sore displeased with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him. He laboured till the going down of the sun to deliver him. But the officials assembled unto the king, and said unto the king, "Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, that no decree nor statute which the king establisheth may be changed." Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions. The king spake with a troubled heart unto Daniel, "Thy God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee." And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den. And the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his lords, that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel.

The night in the palace was filled with unease. The king passed the cold hours in fasting, neither were instruments of musick brought before him: and his sleep went from him. The den below was dark and deep, stone walls round about Daniel, and fierce lions prowling restlessly. Yet God sent his angel to shut the lions' mouths, and Daniel was unhurt through the long, anxious night.

Then the king arose very early in the morning, as the first rays of light slipped into the city, and went in haste unto the den of lions. And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voice, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions?" Then from within the den came Daniel's voice, strong and unhurt, "O king, live for ever. My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in me; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt." Then was the king exceeding glad for him, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he believed in his God.

And the king commanded, and they brought those men which had accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions — them, their children, and their wives. And the lions had the mastery of them, and brake all their bones in pieces or ever they came at the bottom of the den. Afterward, King Darius wrote unto all peoples, nations, and languages, that dwell in all the earth: "Peace be multiplied unto you. I make a decree, That in every dominion of my kingdom men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God, and stedfast for ever, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed, and his dominion shall be even unto the end. He delivereth and rescueth, and he worketh signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the lions." So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian.
