In the days when Darius was king, Daniel served with wisdom and integrity in the courts of Babylon. The king set over his kingdom an hundred and twenty princes, and above them he appointed three presidents, of whom Daniel was first. Because of Daniel's excellent spirit, the king thought to set him over the whole realm. This stirred up envy among the other officials. They sought occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but he was faithful. There was no error nor fault found in him. So these men consulted together, saying, "We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God."

They came unto King Darius with flattery. "O King Darius, live for ever!" they said. "All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors, and the princes have consulted together to establish a royal statute. That whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save of thee, O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions." Pleased with these words, King Darius signed the writing, that it might not be changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not.

Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went unto his house. His windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime. The officials watched and found Daniel praying and making supplication before his God. They hasted unto the king and accused him, saying, "That Daniel, which is of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O king, nor the decree that thou hast signed."

Then the king, when he heard these words, was sore displeased with himself. He set his heart on Daniel to deliver him, and laboured till the going down of the sun to deliver him. Yet the law stood fast. The officials pressed him: "Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, that no decree nor statute which the king establisheth may be changed." Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions. The king spake unto Daniel, "Thy God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee." And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den; and the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his lords.

That night, King Darius could neither eat nor sleep. Then the king arose very early in the morning, and went in haste unto the den of lions. And when he came unto the den, he cried with a lamentable voice, saying, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions?" Then said Daniel unto the king, "O king, live for ever. My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in me; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt."

Then was the king exceeding glad for him, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he believed in his God. Then by the king's commandment, those men which had accused Daniel were brought, and cast into the den of lions. King Darius wrote unto all peoples, declaring that the God of Daniel endureth for ever. So Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian, shining with courage and stedfast faith in the courts of kings.
