Two friends were walking down a dusty road that led away from Jerusalem. The sun was beginning to sink, painting all things with a golden light. Their steps were slow and quiet. One of the men was named Cleopas, and the other walked closely beside him. Each of them was sad and weary as they spake together of all things which had come to pass in Jerusalem.

As they walked, a stranger drew near and went with them. The stranger seemed kind and gentle, but the two friends knew not who he was. He said unto them, "What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?" They stood still, and looked sorrowful. Cleopas answered, "Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days?" The stranger asked, "What things?" They began to tell him of Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word, and did many wondrous things. They told how many had hoped he should have redeemed Israel, but now all seemed lost.

They told the stranger how certain women of their company had gone unto the sepulchre early that morning, but found not his body. The women had seen angels, which said that Jesus was alive. Some of the friends ran unto the sepulchre, but they saw not Jesus. Cleopas and his companion were sore confounded as they walked.

The stranger hearkened quietly while the two spake. Then he began to expound unto them the old stories from God's word. Beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he opened unto them how these things pointed unto all which had come to pass. The two friends hearkened diligently while the stranger spake. As he talked, the road seemed less dusty, and the sky seemed brighter.

Soon they drew nigh unto the village called Emmaus. It was toward evening, and the air felt cool. The stranger made as though he would have gone further, but the two friends constrained him, saying, "Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent." So the stranger went in with them. They sat at meat together, and the warm glow of a lamp filled the little room.

As they did eat, the stranger took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. And straightway their eyes were opened, and they knew him. It was Jesus! And he vanished out of their sight. The two friends looked one upon another in wonder. They remembered how their hearts had burned within them while he talked with them by the way. And though it was dark, they hasted back unto Jerusalem, eager to tell the others how they had seen Jesus, and knew that he was risen indeed.
