After the asses of Saul's father were lost, Saul had gone out with his servant to seek them. They came into the land of Zuph, and they found them not. So they came unto the city of Samuel the seer, and Samuel met them at the gate.

The Lord had told Samuel the day before, "Tomorrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin. Thou shalt anoint him to be captain over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines."

When Samuel beheld Saul, the Lord said unto him, "Behold the man whom I spake to thee of. This same shall reign over my people."

Samuel brought Saul into the high place. He made him sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden, and he said unto him, "Set this portion before thee and eat. For unto this time hath it been kept for thee."

In the morning, Samuel went forth with Saul unto the end of the city. He said unto Saul, "Bid the servant pass on before us, but stand thou still a while, that I may shew thee the word of God."

Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him. He said, "Is it not because the Lord hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?"

Samuel said, "When thou art departed from me to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's sepulchre. And they shall tell thee the asses are found. Then thou shalt go on, and shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place. And the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man."

And it was so, that when Saul had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart. And all those signs came to pass that day. And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him, and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.

And the people that knew him beforetime beheld him prophesying among the prophets, and they said one to another, "What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?"
