Kish of Benjamin, a mighty man of power, had a son named Saul, a choice young man and a goodly one. There was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he; from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.

The asses of Kish were lost. Kish said to Saul, “Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seek the asses.” Saul passed through mount Ephraim and the land of Shalisha, but they found them not. They crossed the land of Shalim and the land of the Benjamites, and still they found them not.

When they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant, “Come, and let us return; lest my father leave caring for the asses, and take thought for us.” But the servant spoke of a man of God in that city, an honourable man, whose every word came surely to pass. Peradventure he could shew them the way that they should go. The bread was spent in their vessels, but the servant had at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver for the man of God. “Well said,” answered Saul. “Come, let us go.”

Young maidens going out to draw water told them the seer had come that day, for there was a sacrifice of the people in the high place, and he would bless the sacrifice before they that were bidden did eat. As Saul and his servant came into the city, Samuel came out toward them.

Now the Lord had told Samuel in his ear a day before, “To morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be captain over my people Israel.” When Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, “Behold the man whom I spake to thee of! this same shall reign over my people.”

Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate and asked where the seer’s house was. “I am the seer,” Samuel answered. The asses lost three days before were found. On whom was all the desire of Israel? Was it not on Saul and on all his father’s house? Saul answered that he was a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, his family the least in Benjamin. Wherefore then did Samuel speak so to him?

Yet Samuel made Saul and his servant sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden, about thirty persons, and the portion that had been set by was placed before Saul, kept unto that time. Saul did eat with Samuel that day, and Samuel communed with him upon the top of the house. About the spring of the day, Samuel bade the servant pass on before and said, “But stand thou still a while, that I may shew thee the word of God.”
