Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked, and there was Esau coming — and four hundred men with him.

So Jacob divided the children between Leah, Rachel, and the two servants. He put the servants and their children in front, Leah and her children next, and Rachel and Joseph at the rear. And he himself went on ahead of them all, bowing himself to the ground seven times as he came near his brother.

Then Esau ran to meet him. He embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. And they wept.

Esau lifted up his eyes and saw the women and the children. "Who are these with you?"

"The children God has graciously given your servant," Jacob said. Then the servants came near with their children, and bowed themselves. Leah came with her children, and they bowed. And last of all, Joseph and Rachel came near and bowed themselves.

"And what did you mean by all that company I met on the way?"

"To find favor in the sight of my lord."

"I have enough, my brother," Esau said. "Keep what you have for yourself."

"Please, no," said Jacob. "If I have found favor in your sight, then receive my gift from my hand. For I have seen your face — as one sees the face of God — and you were pleased with me. Please take the gift that was brought to you, because God has dealt graciously with me, and I have enough." And he urged him, and Esau took it.

Then Esau said, "Let us set out on our journey, and I will go ahead of you."

"My lord knows that the children are tender," Jacob answered, "and the flocks and herds with me have their young. If they are driven hard for one day, all the flocks will die. Let my lord pass on ahead of his servant, and I will lead on gently, at the pace of the livestock and the children, until I come to my lord at Seir."

"Then let me leave some of my men with you."

"Why?" said Jacob. "Let me only find favor in the sight of my lord."

So Esau turned back that day on his way to Seir. And Jacob traveled on to Succoth, where he built a house for himself and made shelters for his livestock. That is why the place is called Succoth.

Then Jacob came in peace to the city of Shechem, in the land of Canaan, and camped before the city. He bought the piece of ground where he had spread his tent from the sons of Hamor, for one hundred pieces of money. And there he raised an altar, and called it El Elohe Israel — God, the God of Israel.
