Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came — and with him four hundred men.

So Jacob divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids. He put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost. And he himself passed over before them all, bowing himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.

Then Esau ran to meet him. He embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. And they wept.

Esau lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children. Who are those with thee?

The children which God hath graciously given thy servant, said Jacob. Then came the handmaidens near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves. Leah also came near with her children, and they bowed. And after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.

And what meanest thou by all this drove which I met?

These are to find grace in the sight of my lord.

I have enough, my brother, said Esau. Keep that thou hast unto thyself.

Nay, I pray thee, said Jacob. If now I have found grace in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand. For I have seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me. Take my blessing that is brought to thee, he said, because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. So Jacob urged him, and Esau took it.

Then Esau said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before thee.

My lord knoweth that the children are tender, Jacob answered, and that the flocks and herds with me have their young; if men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die. Let my lord pass over before his servant, I pray thee, he said, and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle and the children are able to endure, until I come unto my lord at Seir.

Then let me leave with thee some of the folk that are with me.

What needeth it? said Jacob. Let me find grace in the sight of my lord.

So Esau turned back that day toward Seir, and Jacob journeyed on to Succoth. There he built him an house, and made booths for his cattle; and therefore is the name of the place called Succoth.

And Jacob came in peace to a city of Shechem, in the land of Canaan, and pitched his tent before the city. He bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, for an hundred pieces of money. And there he erected an altar, and called it El-elohe-Israel — God, the God of Israel.
