In the first month of the fortieth year, the children of Israel came into the wilderness of Zin, and the people abode at Kadesh. Miriam the prophetess, sister of Moses and of Aaron, died there, and was buried there. And the people had no water; and they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. And the day had grown long for Moses.

Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zin in the first month: and the people abode in Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.

And there was no water for the congregation: and they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron.

And the people chode with Moses, and spake, saying, "Would God that we had died when our brethren died before the Lord!

And why have ye brought up the congregation of the Lord into this wilderness, that we and our cattle should die there?

And wherefore have ye made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us in unto this evil place? it is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither is there any water to drink."

And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces: and the glory of the Lord appeared unto them.

And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying,

"Take the rod, and gather thou the assembly together, thou, and Aaron thy brother, and speak ye unto the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth his water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock: so thou shalt give the congregation and their beasts drink."

And Moses took the rod from before the Lord, as he commanded him.

And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, "Hear now, ye rebels; must we fetch you water out of this rock?"

And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice: and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also.

And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron, "Because ye believed me not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them."

This is the water of Meribah; because the children of Israel strove with the Lord, and he was sanctified in them.

And the people drank and the cattle drank. The water flowed out of the rock that day in great abundance; but Moses had spoken in haste and had smitten the rock instead of speaking unto it, and the Lord had marked the word against him, and the land beyond Jordan should belong to others to enter. And so it was in the days when Miriam died at Kadesh and the rock was smitten at Meribah.
