The Lord commanded Moses to gather seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom Moses knew to be elders and officers over the people. He was to bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation, that they might stand there with him. The Lord said that he would come down and speak with Moses. He would take of the spirit that was upon Moses and put it upon the elders. Thus they would bear the burden of the people with Moses, and he would not bear it alone.

Moses was also to command the people to sanctify themselves against the morrow. They had wept for flesh and spoken of their life in Egypt. The Lord said they would eat flesh, not one day or two, nor five, ten, or twenty days, but for a whole month, until it became loathsome unto them. They had despised the Lord who was among them.

Moses answered that the people among whom he stood were six hundred thousand footmen. He asked whether the flocks and herds could be slain to suffice them, or all the fish of the sea gathered together for them. The Lord asked whether his hand was waxed short and told Moses, “Thou shalt see now whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.”

Moses went forth and told the people the words of the Lord. He gathered the seventy elders and set them round about the tabernacle. The Lord came down in a cloud, spake unto Moses, took of the spirit that was upon him, and gave it unto the elders. When the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied and did not cease.

Two men, Eldad and Medad, remained in the camp. They were of them that were written, though they went not out unto the tabernacle. The spirit rested upon them, and they prophesied in the camp. A young man ran and told Moses what they did.

Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses and one of his young men, asked his lord Moses to forbid them. Moses asked whether Joshua envied for his sake. He declared his desire that all the Lord’s people were prophets, and that the Lord would put his spirit upon them. Then Moses gat him into the camp with the elders of Israel.
