Now about that time, King Herod stretched out his hands to oppress some of the assembly. He killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. When he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to seize Peter also. It was during the days of unleavened bread. When he had arrested him, he put him in prison and delivered him to four squads of four soldiers each to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people.

Peter was therefore kept in the prison, but earnest prayer was made by the assembly to God for him without ceasing.

The same night when Herod was about to bring him out, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, one on each hand. Guards before the door kept the prison.

An angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side and woke him up, saying, "Stand up quickly!"

His chains fell off from his hands.

The angel said to him, "Get dressed and put on your sandals." He did so. The angel said to him, "Put on your cloak and follow me."

Peter went out and followed him. He did not know that what was being done by the angel was real, but thought he saw a vision. When they had passed the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate that leads into the city, which opened to them by itself. They went out and passed on through one street, and immediately the angel departed from him.

When Peter came to himself, he said, "Now I truly know that the Lord has sent out his angel and delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from everything the Jewish people were expecting."

He came to the house of Mary, the mother of John whose surname was Mark, where many were gathered together and were praying. He knocked at the door of the gate. A servant girl named Rhoda came to answer. When she recognized Peter's voice, she did not open the gate for joy, but ran in and reported that Peter was standing before the gate.

They said to her, "You are crazy!" But she insisted.

They opened the door and saw him.