The dreams had come in one night to the chief cupbearer and the chief baker of Pharaoh — both officers shut up in the prison of the captain of the guard, in the same house where Joseph had been put. Joseph had come to them in the morning and had seen that they were sad, and had asked them why. They had told him their dreams. Joseph had given the interpretation of the cupbearer's dream first, that within three days Pharaoh would lift up his head and restore him to his cup. And then Joseph said this.

"But remember me when it will be well with you, and please show kindness to me, and make mention of me to Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house.

For indeed, I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews, and here also I have done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon."

When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, "I also was in my dream, and behold, three baskets of white bread were on my head.

In the uppermost basket there were all kinds of baked food for Pharaoh, and the birds ate them out of the basket on my head."

Joseph answered, "This is its interpretation. The three baskets are three days.

Within three more days, Pharaoh will lift up your head from off you, and will hang you on a tree; and the birds will eat your flesh from off you."

On the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, he made a feast for all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief cup bearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants.

He restored the chief cup bearer to his position again, and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand;

but he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them.

Yet the chief cup bearer didn't remember Joseph, but forgot him.

And the cupbearer went back to the king's table. The third day was Pharaoh's birthday, and the feast had been spread, and the cupbearer stood at the king's right hand with the cup again in his hand and his place restored to him as Joseph had said. And the days went on after that, and the dust gathered in the corners of Joseph's cell in the prison, and the cupbearer did not yet remember Joseph.
