The dreams had come in one night unto the chief butler and the chief baker of Pharaoh — both officers shut up in the prison of the captain of the guard, in the same house wherein Joseph had been put. Joseph had come unto them in the morning and had beheld that they were sad, and had asked them wherefore. They had told him their dreams. Joseph had given the interpretation of the butler's dream first, that within three days Pharaoh should lift up his head and restore him unto his cup. And then Joseph spake on this wise.

"But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house:

For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon."

When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said unto Joseph, "I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three white baskets on my head:

And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head."

And Joseph answered and said, "This is the interpretation thereof: The three baskets are three days:

Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee."

And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.

And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand:

But he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them.

Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.

And the butler went again unto the king's table. The third day was Pharaoh's birthday, and the feast had been spread, and the butler stood at the king's right hand with the cup again in his hand and his place restored unto him as Joseph had said. And the days went on after that, and the dust gathered in the corners of Joseph's cell in the prison, and the butler did not yet remember Joseph.
