The ark of the Lord was in the country of the Philistines seven months. The Philistines called for the priests and the diviners and asked what they should do to the ark of the Lord and wherewith they should send it to his place. If they sent away the ark of the God of Israel, came the answer, they were not to send it empty, but in any wise return him a trespass offering: five golden emerods and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for one plague was on them all. They were to give glory unto the God of Israel; peradventure he would lighten his hand from off them, and from off their gods, and from off their land. Wherefore should they harden themselves as the Egyptians and Pharaoh had done?

So the priests directed them: make a new cart and take two milch kine on which there had come no yoke. Tie the kine to the cart and bring their calves home. Lay the ark of the Lord upon the cart, with the jewels of gold in a coffer by the side thereof, and send it away. If it went up by the way of his own coast to Beth-shemesh, then the Lord had done this great evil; but if not, they would know it was a chance that happened to them.

The men did so. The kine took the straight way to Beth-shemesh, lowing as they went along the highway, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left, and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border.

They of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley. They lifted up their eyes, saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it. The cart came into the field of Joshua, a Beth-shemite, and stood there, where there was a great stone. They clave the wood of the cart and offered the kine a burnt offering unto the Lord. The Levites took down the ark of the Lord and the coffer wherein the jewels of gold were and put them on the great stone, and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day. When the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.

But the Lord smote of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of the Lord, and the people lamented because of the great slaughter. The men of Beth-shemesh said, “Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom shall he go up from us?” They sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjath-jearim, saying, “The Philistines have brought again the ark of the Lord; come ye down, and fetch it up to you.”
