Yahweh’s ark was in the country of the Philistines seven months. The Philistines called for the priests and the diviners and asked what they should do with Yahweh’s ark and how they should send it to its place. If they sent away the ark of the God of Israel, came the answer, they were not to send it empty, but by all means return a trespass offering: five golden tumors and five golden mice, for the number of the lords of the Philistines, for one plague was on them all. They were to give glory to the God of Israel; perhaps he would release his hand from them, from their gods, and from their land. Why should they harden themselves as the Egyptians and Pharaoh had done?

So the priests directed them: prepare a new cart and two milk cows on which no yoke had come. Tie the cows to the cart and bring their calves home. Lay Yahweh’s ark on the cart, with the jewels of gold in a box by its side, and send it away. If it went up by the way of its own border to Beth Shemesh, then Yahweh had done this great evil; but if not, they would know it was a chance that had happened to them.

The men did so. The cows took the straight way to Beth Shemesh, lowing as they went along the highway, and did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left, while the lords of the Philistines walked behind them to the border.

The people of Beth Shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley. They lifted up their eyes, saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it. The cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh and stood there by a great stone. They split the wood of the cart and offered up the cows for a burnt offering to Yahweh. The Levites took down Yahweh’s ark and the box with the jewels of gold and set them on the great stone, and the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrifices that day. When the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.

But Yahweh struck some of the men of Beth Shemesh, because they had looked into Yahweh’s ark, and the people mourned because of the great slaughter. The men of Beth Shemesh said, “Who is able to stand before Yahweh, this holy God? To whom shall he go up from us?” They sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim, saying, “The Philistines have brought back Yahweh’s ark. Come down and bring it up to yourselves.”
