Joshua had grown old in the days when Israel had come into the land. He had seen what their fathers had not seen. The wars of Yahweh were behind him.

He gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, near the great oak that stood in the sanctuary of Yahweh.

The elders came. The heads of the tribes came. The judges came. The officers came. They stood before him in the morning.

Joshua was an old man, and they had not heard him speak to all of them in this way since the days of the crossing.

He said to them, "Now therefore fear Yahweh, and serve him in sincerity and in truth. Put away the gods which your fathers served beyond the River, in Egypt; and serve Yahweh.

If it seems evil to you to serve Yahweh, choose today whom you will serve — whether the gods which your fathers served that were beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve Yahweh."

The people answered him.

They had heard the stories from their fathers. They had heard about Egypt, and about the Red Sea, and about the mountain that had burned in Sinai. They had walked in the land that had been promised to those fathers. They answered out of what they had been told.

"Far be it from us that we should forsake Yahweh," they said, "to serve other gods. For it is Yahweh our God who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and who did those great signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way in which we went, and among all the peoples through the middle of whom we passed. Yahweh drove out from before us all the peoples, even the Amorites who lived in the land. Therefore we also will serve Yahweh, for he is our God."

Joshua looked at them. He was not yet finished.

"You cannot serve Yahweh," he said, "for he is a holy God. He is a jealous God."

The people said, "No. We will serve Yahweh."

He said, "You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen Yahweh yourselves, to serve him."

"We are witnesses," they said.

"Now therefore put away the foreign gods which are among you," he said, "and incline your heart to Yahweh, the God of Israel."

"We will serve Yahweh our God," the people said. "We will listen to his voice."

So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day. He wrote the words in the book of the law of God. He took a great stone and set it up there, under the oak that was in Yahweh's sanctuary, where the people had answered him.

The stone stood for what had been said in the hearing of all Israel.
