Joshua was waxen old in the days when Israel had come into the land. He had seen what their fathers had not seen. The wars of the Lord were behind him.

He gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, near the great oak that stood in the sanctuary of the Lord.

The elders came. The heads of the tribes came. The judges came. The officers came. They stood before him in the morning.

Joshua was an old man, and they had not heard him speak unto all of them in this manner since the days of the crossing.

He said unto them, "Now therefore fear the Lord, and serve him in sincerity and in truth. Put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood, and in Egypt; and serve ye the Lord.

And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve; whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord."

The people answered him.

They had heard the tidings from their fathers. They had heard of Egypt, and of the Red Sea, and of the mountain that had burned in Sinai. They had walked in the land that had been promised unto those fathers. They answered out of that which they had been told.

"God forbid that we should forsake the Lord," they said, "to serve other gods. For it is the Lord our God who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and which did those great signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way wherein we went, and among all the peoples through the midst of whom we passed. The Lord drave out from before us all the peoples, even the Amorites which dwelt in the land. Therefore will we also serve the Lord; for he is our God."

Joshua beheld them. He was not yet finished.

"Ye cannot serve the Lord," he said, "for he is an holy God. He is a jealous God."

The people said, "Nay; but we will serve the Lord."

He said, "Ye are witnesses against yourselves that ye have chosen you the Lord, to serve him."

"We are witnesses," they said.

"Now therefore put away the strange gods which are among you," he said, "and incline your heart unto the Lord, the God of Israel."

"The Lord our God will we serve," the people said. "And his voice will we obey."

So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day. He wrote the words in the book of the law of God. He took a great stone, and set it up there under the oak that was by the sanctuary of the Lord, where the people had answered him.

The stone stood for that which had been spoken in the hearing of all Israel.
