Long shadows fell across the palace court as tidings spread of the king's decree. In distant corners, many of the Jews mourned with fasting, weeping, and lamentation, for their destruction had been commanded. Mordecai, in his grief, rent his clothes and put on sackcloth with ashes. He stood at the king's gate, for he could not enter clothed thus. Esther's maidens told her of Mordecai's distress, and she was exceedingly grieved. She sent raiment unto him, but he would not receive it.

Esther called for Hatach, one of the king's chamberlains, and sent him forth to learn what troubled Mordecai. Mordecai told Hatach of Haman's wicked plot, and of the sum of silver promised unto the king's treasuries in exchange for the lives of the Jews. He also gave Hatach a copy of the written decree, that Esther might know the gravity of the threat. He charged her that she should go in unto king Ahasuerus and make supplication for her people.

When Hatach delivered Mordecai's words, Esther made known the law of the land: any woman or man, who came into the king's inner court uncalled, faced death, except such to whom the king should hold out the golden sceptre. Esther told Mordecai that she had not been called unto the king these thirty days. Mordecai answered, warning her that she should not think to escape because she dwelt in the palace. "If thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place; but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed: and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?"

Esther resolved with courage, and sent word unto Mordecai: "Go, gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day: I also and my maidens will fast likewise; and so will I go in unto the king, which is not according to the law: and if I perish, I perish." Mordecai obediently did according to all that Esther had commanded him.

On the third day, Esther put on her royal apparel, and stood in the silent inner court. The king sat upon his royal throne of gold, behind heavy curtains and amidst gleaming riches. When he beheld Esther, he held out unto her the golden sceptre. Esther drew near and touched the top thereof. The king asked what she desired, promising her even to the half of the kingdom. Esther requested that he and Haman attend a banquet which she had prepared.

At the banquet, Esther invited the king and Haman unto a second feast on the morrow. At that second banquet, Esther revealed the truth: "We are sold, I and my people, to be destroyed. The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman." The king, in his wrath, commanded that Haman be hanged upon the very gallows which he had prepared for Mordecai. Thus deliverance came through Esther's courage and faith, for such a time as this.
