Moreover Josiah kept a passover unto the Lord in Jerusalem, and they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.

He set the priests in their charges, and encouraged them to the service of the Lord's house.

Then he said unto the Levites that taught all Israel and were holy unto the Lord:

"Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel did build. It shall not be a burden upon your shoulders. Serve now the Lord your God, and his people Israel."

The carrying was over.

"And prepare yourselves by the houses of your fathers, after your courses, according to the writing of David and of Solomon his son. Stand in the holy place. So kill the passover, sanctify yourselves, and prepare your brethren, according to the word of the Lord by Moses."

Then the king opened his own flocks: thirty thousand lambs and kids went out unto the people, and three thousand bullocks of the king's substance.

His princes gave willingly also. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, rulers of the house of God, gave the priests two thousand six hundred small cattle and three hundred oxen. The chief of the Levites — Conaniah, Shemaiah, Nethaneel, Hashabiah, Jeiel, and Jozabad — gave the Levites five thousand small cattle and five hundred oxen.

So the service was prepared. The priests stood in their place, the Levites in their courses, according to the king's commandment.

And they killed the passover. The priests sprinkled the blood from the Levites' hands, and the Levites flayed them.

They removed the burnt offerings, to give by the divisions of the families of the people, as it is written in the book of Moses. And so did they with the oxen.

They roasted the passover with fire according to the ordinance. The other holy offerings they sod in pots and caldrons and pans, and divided them speedily among all the people.

Afterward the Levites made ready for themselves and for the priests, for the sons of Aaron were busied in offering the burnt offerings and the fat until night.

The singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according to the commandment of David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun the king's seer. The porters waited at every gate. Not one of them might depart from his service, for their brethren the Levites prepared for them.

All the service of the Lord was prepared the same day — the passover kept, the burnt offerings offered upon his altar, at the commandment of king Josiah.

The children of Israel that were present kept the passover, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.

There was no passover like to that kept in Israel from the days of Samuel the prophet. Neither did any king of Israel keep such a passover as Josiah kept, with the priests, the Levites, and all Judah and Israel and Jerusalem.

In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was this passover kept.
