Then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people who were with him, rose up early, and camped beside the spring of Harod. The camp of Midian was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh in the valley.

The Lord said to Gideon, "The people who are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel brag against me, saying, 'My own hand has saved me.' Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from Mount Gilead.'"

Twenty-two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained.

The Lord said to Gideon, "The people are still too many. Bring them down to the water, and I will test them for you there."

So Gideon brought down the people to the water. The Lord said to him, "Everyone who laps of the water with his tongue, like a dog laps, you shall set him by himself; likewise everyone who bows down on his knees to drink."

The number of those who lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was three hundred men. All the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.

The Lord said to Gideon, "I will save you by the three hundred men who lapped, and deliver the Midianites into your hand. Let all the people go, every man to his place."

Gideon divided the three hundred men into three companies, and put trumpets in the hands of all of them, with empty pitchers, and torches within the pitchers. He said to them, "Watch me, and do likewise. Behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so you shall do."

So Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came to the outermost part of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch, when they had but newly set the watch. They blew the trumpets, and broke in pieces the pitchers that were in their hands. The three companies blew the trumpets, and broke the pitchers, and held the torches in their left hands and the trumpets in their right hands to blow.

They cried, "The sword of the Lord and of Gideon!" The Midianites ran, crying out as they fled. The Lord set every man's sword against his fellow, and against all the army. The army fled as far as Beth Shittah toward Zererah, as far as the border of Abel Meholah, by Tabbath.
