While Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the upper coasts and came unto Ephesus. There he found about twelve disciples. He asked whether they had received the Holy Ghost since they believed. They answered that they had not so much as heard whether there were any Holy Ghost.

Paul asked unto what they had been baptized. They answered, Unto John's baptism. Paul declared that John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying that the people should believe on him which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus. When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Paul laid his hands upon them; the Holy Ghost came on them, and they spake with tongues and prophesied.

Paul went into the synagogue and spake boldly for three months, disputing and persuading concerning the kingdom of God. But when divers were hardened, believed not, and spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them. He separated the disciples and disputed daily in the school of one Tyrannus. This continued for two years, so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.

God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul. Handkerchiefs or aprons were brought from his body unto the sick; diseases departed, and evil spirits went out. Certain vagabond Jewish exorcists then took upon them to call the name of the Lord Jesus over them which had evil spirits. The seven sons of Sceva, a chief of the priests, did likewise. The evil spirit answered that it knew Jesus and knew Paul, but demanded who they were. The man in whom the spirit dwelt overcame them, and they fled out of the house naked and wounded.

This was known throughout Ephesus. Fear fell on Jews and Greeks, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified. Many that believed came confessing and shewing their deeds. Many which used curious arts brought their books together and burned them before all men. Their price was counted at fifty thousand pieces of silver. So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.
