The Philistines gathered their armies to battle. They stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel on the other side, and there was a valley between them.

And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. He wore brass from head to shin. The staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam. And one bearing a shield went before him.

And he cried unto the armies of Israel, "Choose you a man, and let him come down to me. If he be able to kill me, then will we be your servants. But if I prevail against him, then shall ye be our servants."

When Saul and all Israel heard those words, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid. And for forty days the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself.

Now David was the youngest son of Jesse. His three eldest brethren followed Saul to the battle. Jesse sent David to the camp with corn and bread. David came and heard the challenge. All the men of Israel fled from Goliath.

And David said to Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine."

And Saul said, "Thou art not able. Thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth."

And David said, "Thy servant kept his father's sheep. When there came a lion, and took a lamb, I smote him and delivered the lamb. The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine."

And Saul armed David with his armour. David assayed to go, and said, "I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them." And he put them off.

And he took his staff, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook. The water ran clear over the rocks. He put them in a shepherd's bag. His sling was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine.

And when the Philistine saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth. And the Philistine said, "Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves?"

And David said, "Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied."

And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk in, and he fell upon his face to the earth.

He fell upon his face to the earth.