Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle at Shochoh, which belongeth to Judah. And Saul and the men of Israel pitched by the valley of Elah. And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them. The ground was dry and open. A brook ran through the bottom, its water moving over smooth stones.

And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail weighing five thousand shekels. And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a target of brass between his shoulders. And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam. And one bearing a shield went before him.

And he cried unto the armies of Israel, "Choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me. If he be able to kill me, then will we be your servants. But if I prevail against him, then shall ye serve us. I defy the armies of Israel this day. Give me a man, that we may fight together."

When Saul and all Israel heard those words, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.

For forty days the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself.

Now David was the youngest son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, who had eight sons. And the three eldest followed Saul to the battle. But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.

And Jesse said unto David, "Take now for thy brethren this parched corn and these loaves, and carry them to the camp." And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and went as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the trench as the host went forth, shouting for the battle. And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage, and ran to his brethren. And as he talked with them, behold, Goliath came up out of the Philistine host, and spake according to the same words. And David heard them.

And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.

And David said to Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine."

And Saul said, "Thou art not able. Thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth."

And David said, "Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock. And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him. Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear. And this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine."

And Saul armed David with his armour — the helmet of brass, the coat of mail. And David girded the sword, assayed to go, and said, "I cannot go with these, for I have not proved them." And he put them off.

And he took his staff in his hand, and went down to the brook. The water ran clear over the rocks at the bottom of the valley. And he chose him five smooth stones, and put them in a shepherd's bag. And his sling was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine.

And the Philistine came on with the man that bare the shield. And when he saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair countenance. And the Philistine said, "Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves?" And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.

And David said, "Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand."

And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk in, and he fell upon his face to the earth.

So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him. But there was no sword in the hand of David.

The giant lay upon his face in the dirt of the valley.