The Philistines gathered their armies to battle. They stood on the mountain on one side. Israel stood on the mountain on the other side. There was a valley between them.

A champion went out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath. His height was six cubits and a span. He wore bronze from head to shin. The staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam. A shield bearer went before him.

He cried to the armies of Israel, "Choose a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me. If he kills me, we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him, you will be our servants."

When Saul and all Israel heard those words, they were dismayed and greatly afraid. For forty days the Philistine drew near morning and evening and presented himself.

David was the youngest son of Jesse. His three oldest brothers followed Saul to the battle. Jesse sent David to the camp with grain and bread. David came and heard the challenge. All the men of Israel fled from Goliath.

David said to Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him. Your servant will go and fight with this Philistine."

Saul said, "You are not able. You are but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth."

David said, "Your servant kept his father's sheep. When a lion came and took a lamb, I struck it and delivered the lamb. The Lord who delivered me from the lion and the bear will deliver me from this Philistine."

Saul put his armor on David. David tried to walk and said, "I cannot go with these, for I have not tested them." He took them off.

He took his staff and chose five smooth stones out of the brook. The water ran clear over the rocks. He put the stones in his shepherd's bag. His sling was in his hand. He drew near to the Philistine.

The Philistine saw David and disdained him, for he was but a youth. He said, "Am I a dog, that you come to me with sticks?"

David said, "You come to me with a sword and a spear and a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of Hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied."

David put his hand in his bag, took a stone, and slung it. The stone struck the Philistine in his forehead and sank in. He fell on his face to the earth.

He fell on his face to the earth.