In the land of Egypt, it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed. He stood by the river. And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed, and they fed in a meadow. Then seven other kine came up after them, ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as he had never seen in all the land of Egypt for badness. The lean kine did eat up the seven fat kine. Pharaoh awoke, troubled.

He slept and dreamed the second time. Seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good. Then seven thin ears blasted with the east wind sprung up after them. The thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. Pharaoh awoke; it was a dream.

In the morning his spirit was troubled. Pharaoh called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof. He told them his dreams, but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh. The court was restless; whispers moved through the golden halls, but no answer came.

Then the chief butler remembered. He stepped forward and said unto Pharaoh, "I do remember my faults this day. Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief baker: And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream. And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams. And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged."

Pharaoh gave commandment at once, and they brought Joseph hastily out of the dungeon. He was shaven and given clean raiment, and brought from the stone walls of the prison house into the light of Pharaoh's hall, where pillars gleamed and servants stood attentive.

And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, "I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it."

And Joseph answered Pharaoh, calmly, saying, "It is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace."

And Pharaoh began to recount his dreams. "In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river. And, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a meadow. And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness. And the lean and the ill favoured kine did eat up the first seven fat kine. And when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.

"And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good. And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them. And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears. And I told this unto the magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me."

Joseph hearkened. The golden court seemed to wait with him. Then he spake. "The dream of Pharaoh is one: God hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do. The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are seven years: the dream is one. And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine. This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.

"Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt: And there shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt. The famine shall consume the land. The plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall be very grievous. And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass."

Joseph continued, his voice steady in the bright hall. "Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years. And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land perish not through the famine."

And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants. And Pharaoh said unto his servants, "Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?"

And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, "Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art: Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou." And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, "See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt."
