And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed. He stood by the river. And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed, and they fed in a meadow. Then seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill favoured and leanfleshed, and stood by the other kine. The lean kine did eat up the fat kine. Pharaoh awoke, troubled.

He slept and dreamed the second time. Seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good. Then seven thin ears blasted with the east wind sprung up after them. The thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. In the morning his spirit was troubled. He called for all the magicians and wise men of Egypt, but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.

Then the chief butler stood in Pharaoh's golden hall. He remembered a man he had once met in the prison house. He said unto Pharaoh, "I do remember my faults this day. When Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, I and the chief baker were put in ward. And we dreamed a dream in one night, and there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard, and he interpreted unto us our dreams. And as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged."

Then Pharaoh sent and called for Joseph. They brought him hastily out of the dungeon. He shaved himself, changed his raiment, and stood before Pharaoh.

And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, "I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it." And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, "It is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace."

Pharaoh recounted his dreams. Joseph hearkened, then spake. "The dream of Pharaoh is one: God hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do. The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are seven years. The seven thin and ill favoured kine and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine."

He continued. "Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt: And there shall arise after them seven years of famine. The famine shall be very grievous. Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt, and let officers gather food in the years of plenty against the years of famine."

And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants. And Pharaoh said, "Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?" He turned unto Joseph. "Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art: Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou. See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt."
