In the days when the judges ruled, there came a famine in the land. A man of Bethlehemjudah went, with his wife and his two sons, to sojourn in the country of Moab. The man's name was Elimelech. His wife's name was Naomi. Their two sons were Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of Bethlehemjudah. They came into Moab to flee the famine.

But sorrow came upon them. Elimelech died, and left Naomi with her two sons. The young men took them wives of the women of Moab — the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth. Ten years passed. Then Mahlon and Chilion died also, both of them. Naomi was left of her two sons and her husband.

Tidings came unto Naomi in Moab that the Lord had visited his people in Judah, in giving them bread. She arose, that she might return home. Ruth and Orpah, her daughters in law, went forth with her upon the dusty way. The sun beat hot upon their backs, the hills of Moab behind them, and before them stretched the way to Judah.

Naomi stayed her steps. She turned unto her daughters in law. "Go, return each unto her mother's house: the Lord deal kindly with you, as ye have dealt with the dead, and with me. The Lord grant you that ye may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband." She kissed them. Grief brake forth. All three lifted up their voice and wept together beside the way.

Orpah and Ruth made answer. "Surely we will return with thee unto thy people."

But Naomi pressed them. "Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with me? Are there yet any sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands? Turn again, my daughters, go your way; I am too old to have an husband. And even if I should have an husband to night and bear sons, would ye tarry for them till they were grown? Nay, my daughters; it is more bitter for me than for you, for the hand of the Lord is gone out against me."

Again they wept. With tears, Orpah kissed her mother in law, and turned again unto Moab. But Ruth clave unto Naomi.

Naomi said, "Behold, thy sister in law is gone back unto her people, and unto her gods: return thou after thy sister in law."

But Ruth answered, her voice trembling with steadfastness: "Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God: where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do so to me, and more also, if ought but death part thee and me."

When Naomi beheld that Ruth was stedfastly minded to go with her, then she left speaking unto her. Together, the two women went on toward Bethlehem.

They came unto Bethlehem, and all the city was moved about them. The women of the city murmured, "Is this Naomi?"

She said, "Call me not Naomi, call me Mara: for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again empty."

So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter in law, with her, which returned out of the country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest.
