About that time, a serious disturbance arose in Ephesus concerning the Way. A silversmith named Demetrius made silver shrines of Artemis and brought considerable business to the craftsmen. He gathered the craftsmen and other workers in the same trade.

Demetrius reminded them that their wealth came from this business. He said they could see and hear that Paul had persuaded many people in Ephesus and throughout much of Asia, telling them that things made by hands were not gods. Demetrius warned that their trade might fall into disrepute. He also claimed that the temple of the great goddess Artemis might be treated as nothing and that her majesty, which he said Asia and the world worshiped, might be destroyed.

The workers became angry and shouted, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!” Confusion filled the city. The crowd seized Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonian companions of Paul, and rushed together into the theater.

Paul wanted to enter and face the people, but the disciples would not allow him. Some Asiarchs who were his friends also sent word, begging him not to venture into the theater. Inside, some people shouted one thing and others another. The assembly was confused, and most did not even know why they had gathered.

The Jews put Alexander forward from the multitude. He motioned with his hand and tried to make a defense. When the crowd recognized that he was a Jew, they cried with one voice for about two hours, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”

At last the town clerk quieted the multitude. The clerk said that everyone knew Ephesus was temple keeper of the great Artemis and of the image which fell down from Zeus. Since these things could not be denied, he told them to be quiet and do nothing rash.

The clerk said that Gaius and Aristarchus were neither temple robbers nor blasphemers of their goddess. If Demetrius and the craftsmen had a case, the courts were open and proconsuls were available; they could bring charges there. Other matters could be settled in the regular assembly. He warned that the city risked being accused over that day’s riot because they could give no cause for the commotion. After saying this, he dismissed the assembly.
