At that time there arose no small stir in Ephesus about the Way. A silversmith named Demetrius made silver shrines for Diana and brought no small gain unto the craftsmen. He called the craftsmen together with workmen of like occupation.

Demetrius reminded them, “Ye know that by this craft we have our wealth.” He said they could see and hear that Paul hath persuaded and turned away much people, not only at Ephesus but throughout almost all Asia, saying that things made with hands were no gods. Demetrius warned that their craft might be set at nought. He also claimed that the temple of the great goddess Diana might be despised and her magnificence destroyed, whom he said all Asia and the world worshipped.

The workmen were full of wrath and cried, “Great is Diana of the Ephesians!” The whole city was filled with confusion. The multitude caught Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia and Paul’s companions in travel, and rushed with one accord into the theatre.

When Paul would have entered unto the people, the disciples suffered him not. Certain chiefs of Asia who were his friends likewise sent unto him, desiring that he would not adventure himself into the theatre. Within, some cried one thing and some another. The assembly was confused, and the greater part knew not wherefore they had come together.

The Jews put Alexander forward from the multitude. He beckoned with his hand and would have made his defence unto the people. But when they knew that he was a Jew, they cried with one voice for about two hours, “Great is Diana of the Ephesians!”

At last the townclerk appeased the people. The townclerk said that every man knew the city of the Ephesians was a worshipper of the great goddess Diana and of the image which fell down from Jupiter. Since these things could not be spoken against, he told them to be quiet and do nothing rashly.

The townclerk said that Gaius and Aristarchus were neither robbers of churches nor blasphemers of their goddess. If Demetrius and the craftsmen had a matter against any man, the law was open and there were deputies; they could implead one another. Other matters could be determined in a lawful assembly. He warned that the city was in danger of being called in question for that day’s uproar, for they could give no cause for the concourse. Having thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.
