“Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence which I make now unto you.” So Paul addressed the people, and when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them, they kept the more silence.

He was verily a man which was a Jew, he told them, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, zealous toward God as they all were that day. He had persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women, as the high priest did bear him witness, and all the estate of the elders. From them he had received letters unto the brethren and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unto Jerusalem to be punished.

As he made his journey and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about him. He fell unto the ground and heard a voice saying unto him, “Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?” He answered, “Who art thou, Lord?” The voice said, “I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest.” They that were with him saw indeed the light and were afraid, but they heard not the voice of him that spake. Paul asked, “What shall I do, Lord?” and the Lord bade him arise and go into Damascus, where it should be told him of all things appointed for him to do. When he could not see for the glory of that light, he was led by the hand into Damascus.

One Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good report of all the Jews which dwelt there, came and stood by him. “Brother Saul, receive thy sight,” he said, and the same hour Paul looked up upon him. The God of their fathers, Ananias told him, had chosen him to know his will, to see that Just One, and to hear the voice of his mouth, for he should be his witness unto all men of what he had seen and heard. “And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord.”

When Paul was come again to Jerusalem and prayed in the temple, he was in a trance and saw the Lord saying unto him, “Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me.” Paul answered that they knew he had imprisoned and beaten in every synagogue them that believed, and that when the blood of the martyr Stephen was shed, he also was standing by, consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him. “Depart,” said the Lord unto him, “for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles.”
