“Brothers and fathers, listen to the defense which I now make to you.” So Paul addressed the people, and when they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they were even more quiet.

He was indeed a Jew, he told them, born in Tarsus of Cilicia but brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, instructed according to the strict tradition of the law of the fathers, zealous for God even as all of them were that day. He had persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women, as the high priest and all the council of the elders could testify. From them he had received letters to the brothers and traveled to Damascus, to bring those who were there to Jerusalem in bonds to be punished.

As he made his journey and came close to Damascus, about noon a great light suddenly shone around him from the sky. He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?” He answered, “Who are you, Lord?” The voice said, “I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you persecute.” Those who were with him saw the light and were afraid, but they did not understand the voice of him who spoke. Paul asked, “What shall I do, Lord?” and the Lord told him to arise and go into Damascus, where he would be told all things appointed for him to do. Unable to see for the glory of that light, he was led by the hand into Damascus.

One Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well reported of by all the Jews who lived there, came and stood by him. “Brother Saul, receive your sight!” he said, and in that very hour Paul looked up at him. The God of their fathers, Ananias told him, had appointed him to know his will, to see the Righteous One, and to hear a voice from his mouth, for he would be a witness for him to all men of what he had seen and heard. “Now why do you wait? Arise, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord.”

When Paul had returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, he fell into a trance and saw the Lord saying to him, “Hurry and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not receive testimony concerning me from you.” Paul answered that they themselves knew he had imprisoned and beaten believers in every synagogue, and that when the blood of Stephen, the Lord’s witness, was shed, he was standing by, consenting, and guarding the cloaks of those who killed him. “Depart,” the Lord said to him, “for I will send you out far from here to the Gentiles.”
