The same day Jesus went forth from the house, and sat down by the sea side. And so great were the multitudes that gathered unto him, that he entered into a ship, and sat there, while all the people stood upon the shore. And he spake many things unto them in parables.

Behold, said he, a sower went forth to sow. And as he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls came and devoured them. Some fell upon stony places, where was little earth; and they sprung up quickly, but when the sun was risen they were scorched, and having no root, they withered away. Some fell among thorns; and the thorns grew, and choked them. But other fell upon good ground, and brought forth fruit — some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.

And when the disciples asked him wherefore he spake in parables, he answered that unto them it was given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but not unto the multitude. For whosoever hath, to him more shall be given, till he abound; but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that he hath. Therefore, said he, I speak to them in parables: for seeing, they see not; and hearing, they hear not, neither do they understand. And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Esaias, which said that hearing they should hear, and not understand, and seeing they should see, and not perceive; for the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed — lest they should see, and hear, and understand, and be converted, and healed. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear; for many prophets and righteous men have longed to behold that which ye behold, and beheld it not, and to hear that which ye hear, and heard it not.

Then said he, Hear ye the parable of the sower. The seed is the word of the kingdom. When a man heareth it, and understandeth it not, the wicked one cometh, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart; this is the seed by the way side.

The seed upon the stony ground is he that heareth the word, and with joy receiveth it at once; yet hath he no root in himself, and endureth but a while, so that when tribulation or persecution ariseth for the word's sake, straightway he is offended.

The seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; but the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful.

But the seed upon the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it, and holdeth it fast. This is he that beareth fruit indeed, and bringeth forth a harvest far greater than ever was sown: some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.
