In the tall, sparkling palace of Babylon, a wise man named Daniel dwelt and laboured. Daniel was unlike many others, for he loved God and followed him in all things. He was honest, kind, and brave. King Darius loved Daniel greatly, and made him a chief helper. Daniel helped the king to govern the kingdom and the people. He laboured more diligently than all the other helpers, and soon the king thought to set Daniel as the chief helper over all the land.

But this pleased not every man. Certain of the royal officials were jealous of Daniel, because he was so faithful and the king would have him to lead. They watched Daniel carefully, hoping to find some fault in him, but Daniel did no wrong thing. They beheld that Daniel ever prayed unto his God. Each day, three times, Daniel went unto his chamber, opened his window toward Jerusalem, and prayed, giving thanks unto God. These men knew this was the one thing wherein Daniel was different.

The officials devised a plan. They came before King Darius, feigning to honour him. "O King Darius, thou art great! We think it good that thou shouldest make a new statute. For thirty days, let every man pray unto thee only, O king. And if any man pray unto another, let him be cast into the den of lions." King Darius thought not that this statute would hurt Daniel. He consented and made the law. The new law was written and sealed, that it could not be changed, no, not even by the king himself.

Daniel soon heard of the new law. But Daniel feared not. He went unto his chamber, as he did aforetime, opened his window, and prayed unto his God. He gave thanks with gladness. The officials hasted unto Daniel's chamber and beheld him praying. Quickly they returned unto the king. "O King Darius," they said, "hast thou not made a statute that no man shall pray unto any save thee for thirty days?" The king answered, "Yea, that is the law." Then they said, "Daniel obeyeth not the law. He prayeth unto his God three times every day."

King Darius was sore displeased when he heard these words. He loved Daniel and would not have him punished. All the day he laboured to find a way to deliver him, but the law could not be changed. When the evening was come, the king gave the commandment. Daniel must be cast into the lions' den. Daniel was brought unto the place where the lions were kept. The den was dark and deep. The lions paced therein, growling and roaring. The king said unto Daniel, "Thy God, whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee." Daniel was cast into the den, and a great stone was rolled across the mouth thereof. The king's signet was pressed into the clay upon the stone, that no man might move it.

That night, the palace was still, but King Darius could not sleep. He was troubled for Daniel, and would neither eat nor hearken unto musick. His bed seemed cold and hard unto him. As soon as the sun arose, the king hasted unto the den of lions. He cried out, saying, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions?"

From within the den came Daniel's voice. "O king, live for ever. My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths. The lions have not hurt me, forasmuch as innocency was found in me before God, and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt."

The king was exceeding glad. He commanded that Daniel be taken up out of the den. When Daniel was brought forth, all could behold that he was safe, and that the lions had not so much as scratched him. Then the king knew that Daniel's God watched over him.

King Darius made a new decree. He commanded all in his kingdom to honour the God of Daniel. "He is the living God. His kingdom shall never be destroyed. He delivereth and worketh wonders. He hath delivered Daniel from the lions." From that day forward, Daniel was safe in the palace, and he continued to serve the king and his God with a glad heart.

Peace returned, and hope blossomed quietly within Daniel's heart as the golden light of morning filled the halls of the palace.
