Daniel dwelt in the bright, strong palace of King Darius, far from his own land. King Darius loved Daniel greatly. Daniel was wise and honest, and the king trusted him. Many men helped to rule the kingdom, but Daniel did his work better than all of them. This grieved certain of the officials. They sought to find fault with Daniel, but they could not. Daniel ever did that which was right.

The crafty officials devised a plan. They knew Daniel loved God and prayed every day. So they came before King Darius and said, "O king, make a new statute! For thirty days, let no man pray unto any man or god save unto thee. And whosoever doth so, let him be cast into the den where the lions dwell." The king thought it seemed good, and made it a law.

Even after the writing was signed, Daniel went unto his house, and into his chamber, with his windows open toward Jerusalem. He kneeled upon his knees and prayed unto his God, as he did aforetime. The officials came unto Daniel's house and watched him in secret. They beheld Daniel praying, and hasted to tell King Darius.

King Darius was sore displeased. He loved Daniel, but the law could not be changed. The officials put him in remembrance, saying, "Thou must send Daniel unto the lions' den." The king sought to deliver Daniel, but he could not. As the sun went down, they brought Daniel and cast him into the den of lions. The king said unto him, "Thy God, whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee!" The den was dark and cold. A great stone was laid upon the mouth thereof, and the king's signet was set upon the stone, that no man might move it.

All that night, the king could not sleep. He was troubled for Daniel, and would neither eat nor hearken unto musick. Then the king arose very early in the morning, as the sun peered over the palace, and went in haste unto the den of lions. He cried with a lamentable voice, saying, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, hath thy God delivered thee from the lions?" Then Daniel answered, "My God hath sent his angel! He hath shut the lions' mouths. They have not hurt me, forasmuch as innocency was found in me."

The king was exceeding glad. He commanded that Daniel be taken up out of the den. Daniel was safe, and no manner of hurt was found upon him. King Darius told all his kingdom of Daniel's God, who is mighty and doth ever deliver. Daniel remained brave and faithful, and God was with him alway.
