A certain man had two sons.

And the younger of them said to his father, "Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me."

And he divided unto them his living.

And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. When he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in want.

He went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. The ground about the troughs was thick with mire. And no man gave unto him.

When he came to himself, he said, "How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants.'"

He arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.

The son said, "Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son."

But the father said to his servants, "Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet. Bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it, and let us eat, and be merry. For this my son was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is found."

And they began to be merry.

Now his elder son was in the field. As he drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing. He called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant. And he said, "Thy brother is come, and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound."

And he was angry, and would not go in. Therefore came his father out, and entreated him.

And he said, "Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment, yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends. But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf."

And he said, "Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine. It was meet that we should make merry and be glad, for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again, and was lost, and is found."

The elder son stood without.