John had been upon the isle of Patmos when the door was opened in heaven. He had been carried in the Spirit unto a throne whereof he had no language. He had seen the throne, and him that sat upon it, and the four beasts, and the four and twenty elders round about the throne, casting down their crowns and singing.

Now he saw a book.

It lay in the right hand of him that sat on the throne. It was written within and on the backside, and sealed with seven seals. A strong angel proclaimed with a loud voice: who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?

And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon.

And John wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon.

And one of the elders saith unto him: weep not. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.

John looked up. He had been bidden to look for a Lion.

He beheld a Lamb.

It stood in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth. And it came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.

And when it had taken the book, the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints.

They sung a new song, saying:

"Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation; and hast made us unto our God kings and priests: and we shall reign on the earth."

Then John beheld, and he heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders. The number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands. They said with a loud voice:

"Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing."

And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard he saying: "Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb, for ever and ever."

And the four beasts said: Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever. And so it was on the day John was shown the book, and the One who could open it, in the throne room of heaven.
