It was the third hour of the day when they put him upon the cross. The multitude was around him on the hill that men called the Place of a Skull. The soldiers were parting his raiment below him, and casting lots. The women that followed him from Galilee stood afar off, and beheld.

The first word he said was for the soldiers.

"Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do."

It was not the manner of word said in that place. The rulers passed beneath him and derided him. "He saved others," they said. "Let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God." The soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar. One called up unto him about saving the king of the Jews.

Two malefactors had been crucified with him, one on his right and the other on his left. The one on the left railed on him in the same words the rulers had used. The one on the right answered him back. "Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss."

Then he turned his face toward Jesus.

"Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom."

Jesus turned his head. His second word was for the man beside him.

"Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in paradise."

It was about the sixth hour now. The sun was darkened. There was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. The veil of the temple, far off in the city, was rent in the midst. The people stood beholding. No man knew what to do.

Then Jesus cried with a loud voice. It was his third word.

"Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit."

And having said thus, he gave up the ghost.

The centurion that stood facing him saw what was done and glorified God. He said: certainly, this was a righteous man. And the people that had come together to behold returned home smiting their breasts. The women that followed him from Galilee stood afar off, and beheld these things. And so it was on the day the King of the Jews was crucified, on the hill without the city, between the sixth hour and the ninth.
