It was the third hour of the day when they put him upon the cross.

The multitude was around him on the hill that men called the Place of a Skull. The soldiers were parting his raiment below him, casting lots for the seamless robe — the one his mother had made for him, the one that should not be rent. The women that followed him from Galilee stood afar off, and beheld. Mary, his mother, was among them. Mary Magdalene was among them. John, the disciple whom he loved, was somewhere upon the edge of the multitude.

The first word he said was for the soldiers.

"Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do."

It was not the manner of word said in that place. The soldiers down below looked not up. They were good at what they were doing, and what they were doing was the same work they did at every cross. They had not asked who he was, and they knew not. He said the word for them notwithstanding. The text saith not whether any of them heard.

The rulers passed beneath him and derided him. "He saved others," they said. "Let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God." It was their best jest. They were satisfied with it. The multitude around them laughed.

The soldiers, coming and going, mocked him. They offered him vinegar from the jar. One called up unto him about saving the king of the Jews. The superscription over his head, written in Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, said it for them: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.

Two malefactors had been crucified with him, one on his right and the other on his left.

The one on the left railed on him in the same words the rulers had used. "If thou be Christ, save thyself and us!"

The one on the right answered him back. He had been silent until then. He spake now without looking at his neighbour. He spake as one who had been thinking upon this a long time.

"Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss."

Then he turned his face toward Jesus. He could not move much. But he turned his face.

"Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom."

Jesus turned his head toward him. His second word was for the man beside him.

"Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in paradise."

It was about the sixth hour now. The sun went out. Not slowly, as the sun goeth out at evening. All at once. A darkness came over all the earth, and abode there, until the ninth hour. The veil of the temple, far off in the city, was rent in the midst from the top to the bottom. The priests in the inner court understood not what was come to pass. The people on the hill understood not either. They stood beholding. No man knew what to do. The multitude grew quieter than multitudes grew.

He hung there in the dark. The soldiers stayed at their posts. The women departed not. The hour passed.

Then Jesus cried with a loud voice. It was his third word.

"Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit."

And having said thus, he gave up the ghost.

The centurion that stood facing him saw what was done. He was a Roman soldier. He had been at many crosses. He had seen many men die. He had seen most kinds of dying that there were to see. He had not seen one die thus. He glorified God. He said: certainly, this was a righteous man.

And the people that had come together to behold turned and went home, smiting their breasts. The hill emptied. The women that followed him from Galilee departed not. They stood afar off, and beheld these things. They watched the soldiers take him down. They watched the men bear him unto the sepulchre that had been offered. They watched where he was laid, that they might know how to come back.

And so it was on the day the King of the Jews was crucified, on the hill without the city, between the sixth hour and the ninth.
