The tidings had come unto David at Ziklag — that Saul and Jonathan were dead upon the heights of Gilboa, and that the army of Israel had fled before the Philistines. David had rent his garments; the men with him had rent theirs; they had mourned and wept and fasted until even. And then David took up the lamentation, and he commanded that the children of Judah be taught the song of the bow.

David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son

(and he bade them teach the children of Judah the use of the bow: behold, it is written in the book of Jasher):

"The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places!
How are the mighty fallen!

Tell it not in Gath,
publish it not in the streets of Askelon,
lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice,
lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.

Ye mountains of Gilboa,
let there be no dew, neither let there be rain, upon you, nor fields of offerings:
for there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away,
the shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil.

From the blood of the slain,
from the fat of the mighty,
the bow of Jonathan turned not back.
The sword of Saul returned not empty.

Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives,
and in their death they were not divided.
They were swifter than eagles.
They were stronger than lions.

Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul,
who clothed you in scarlet, with other delights,
who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel.

How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle!
O Jonathan, thou wast slain in thine high places.

I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan:
very pleasant hast thou been unto me:
thy love to me was wonderful,
passing the love of women.

How are the mighty fallen,
and the weapons of war perished!"

And the song of the bow was given unto the children of Judah, that they might learn it. The men of David's company sat among the tents at Ziklag and let the lamentation settle into them; and the names of Saul and Jonathan would be set in the singing of Israel from that day forward. And so it was in the days when David lamented Saul and Jonathan upon the mountains of Gilboa.
