While Paul waited for his companions at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw the city full of idols. So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout, and in the marketplace every day with those who met him.

Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers fell into conversation with him. Some said, "What does this babbler want to say?" Others said, "He seems to be advocating foreign deities," for he preached Jesus and the resurrection.

They took hold of him and brought him to the Areopagus. They said to him, "May we know what this new teaching is? You bring certain strange things to our ears, and we want to know what these things mean."

Paul stood in the middle of the Areopagus and lifted up his voice. He said, "You men of Athens, I perceive that you are very religious in all things. For as I passed along and observed the objects of your worship, I found an altar with this inscription: 'To an unknown God.' What therefore you worship in ignorance, this I announce to you."

He said, "The God who made the world and all things in it does not dwell in temples made with hands. He is not served by human hands, as though he needed anything. He himself gives to all life and breath and all things."

He continued, "He made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on the face of the earth. He has set the times and the boundaries of their dwelling, that they should seek the Lord, that they might reach out for him and find him. For he is not far from each one of us."

Then Paul said, "For in him we live, and move, and have our being. As some of your own poets have said, 'For we are also his offspring.' God now commands that all people everywhere should repent. He has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained, and he has given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead."

When they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. But others said, "We will hear you again concerning this." So Paul went out from among them.

Yet certain men joined with him and believed. Among them were Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
