While Paul waited for his companions at Athens, his spirit was stirred within him when he beheld the city wholly given to idolatry. Therefore he disputed in the synagogue with the Jews, and with the devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with him.

And certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoicks, encountered him. Some said, "What will this babbler say?" Others said, "He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods," because he preached unto them Jesus, and the resurrection.

They took hold of him and brought him unto Areopagus. They said unto him, "May we know what this new doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is? For thou bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would know therefore what these things mean."

Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and lifted up his voice. He said, "Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious. For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you."

He said, "God that made the world and all things therein dwelleth not in temples made with hands. Neither is he worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any thing. He himself giveth to all life, and breath, and all things."

He continued, "And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation, that they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him. For he is not far from every one of us."

Then Paul said, "For in him we live, and move, and have our being. As certain also of your own poets have said, 'For we are also his offspring.' God now commandeth all men every where to repent. He hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained, whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead."

And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. But others said, "We will hear thee again of this matter." So Paul departed from among them.

Howbeit certain men clave unto him, and believed. Among the which were Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
