Abraham traveled toward the land of the South and lived between Kadesh and Shur, and he lived as a foreigner in Gerar. There Abraham said about Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” So Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah.

But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night. “Behold, you are a dead man, because of the woman whom you have taken; for she is a man’s wife,” he said. Now Abimelech had not come near her, and he answered, “Lord, will you kill even a righteous nation?” Had not the man told him, “She is my sister”? She herself had said, “He is my brother.” He had done this in the integrity of his heart and the innocence of his hands. God said to him in the dream, “Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also withheld you from sinning against me.” Abimelech was to restore the man’s wife, for the man was a prophet, and he would pray for Abimelech, and Abimelech would live. If he did not restore her, he would surely die, he and all who were his.

Abimelech rose early in the morning, called all his servants, and told all these things in their ear. The men were very scared. Then Abimelech called Abraham. “What have you done to us?” he asked. How had he sinned against Abraham, that Abraham had brought on him and on his kingdom a great sin? What had Abraham seen, that he had done this thing?

Abraham answered, “Because I thought, ‘Surely the fear of God is not in this place. They will kill me for my wife’s sake.’” Besides, she was indeed his sister, the daughter of his father though not of his mother, and she became his wife. When God caused him to wander from his father’s house, he had asked this kindness of her: everywhere they went, she was to say of him, “He is my brother.”

Abimelech took sheep and cattle, male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and he restored Sarah his wife to him. “Behold, my land is before you,” he said. “Dwell where it pleases you.” To Sarah he said that he had given her brother a thousand pieces of silver; it was for her a covering of the eyes to all who were with her, and in front of all she was vindicated.

Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, his wife, and his female servants, and they bore children. For Yahweh had closed up tight all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.
