Abraham journeyed toward the south country and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and he sojourned in Gerar. There Abraham said of Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” And Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah.

But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night. “Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken; for she is a man’s wife,” he said. But Abimelech had not come near her, and he answered, “Lord, wilt thou slay also a righteous nation?” Had not the man said unto him, “She is my sister”? She herself had said, “He is my brother.” In the integrity of his heart and innocency of his hands had he done this. God said unto him in the dream, “Yea, I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from sinning against me.” Abimelech was to restore the man his wife, for the man was a prophet, and he would pray for him, and he would live. If he restored her not, he would surely die, he and all that were his.

Abimelech rose early in the morning, called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears, and the men were sore afraid. Then Abimelech called Abraham. “What hast thou done unto us?” he asked. How had he offended Abraham, that Abraham had brought on him and on his kingdom a great sin? What had Abraham seen, that he had done this thing?

Abraham answered, “Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife’s sake.” And yet indeed she was his sister, the daughter of his father but not of his mother, and she became his wife. When God caused him to wander from his father’s house, he had asked this kindness of her: at every place whither they came, she was to say of him, “He is my brother.”

Abimelech took sheep and oxen, menservants and womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife. “Behold, my land is before thee,” he said. “Dwell where it pleaseth thee.” And unto Sarah he said that he had given her brother a thousand pieces of silver; behold, he was to her a covering of the eyes unto all that were with her, and with all other: thus she was reproved.

So Abraham prayed unto God, and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants, and they bare children. For the Lord had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham’s wife.
