In the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, wine was before him. And Nehemiah took up the wine and gave it unto the king. Now he had not been beforetime sad in his presence.

Wherefore the king said unto him, "Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? This is nothing else but sorrow of heart."

Then Nehemiah was very sore afraid, and said unto the king, "Let the king live for ever. Why should not my countenance be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers' sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gates thereof are consumed with fire?"

Then the king said unto him, "For what dost thou make request?"

So Nehemiah prayed to the God of heaven. Then he said, "If it please the king, and if thy servant have found favour in thy sight, that thou wouldest send me unto Judah, unto the city of my fathers' sepulchres, that I may build it."

The king asked how long his journey should be and when he would return. Nehemiah set him a time, and it pleased the king to send him. He asked also for letters unto the governors beyond the river for safe passage, and timber from the king's forest for the gates and the wall.

And the king granted him all.

Nehemiah came unto Jerusalem and was there three days. Then he arose in the night, he and some few men with him. He told no man what God had put in his heart to do at Jerusalem.

He went out by night by the gate of the valley unto the dragon well and to the dung port, and viewed the walls of Jerusalem which were broken down, and the gates thereof which were consumed with fire. The stones lay tumbled upon the earth. The charred timbers of the old gates lay in heaps.

Then he went on to the gate of the fountain and to the king's pool, but there was no place for the beast to pass. So he went up by the brook in the night and viewed the wall, and turned back and entered by the gate of the valley.

The rulers knew not whither he went nor what he did.

Then said he unto them, "Ye see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth waste, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come, and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach."

Then he told them of the hand of his God which was good upon him, and also of the king's words.

And they said, "Let us rise up and build." So they strengthened their hands for this good work.
