In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia, a thing was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was true, even a great warfare. He understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision.

In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three whole weeks. I ate no pleasant bread. No flesh nor wine came in my mouth. I didn't anoint myself at all, until three whole weeks were fulfilled.

In the twenty-fourth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river, which is Hiddekel, I lifted up my eyes, and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen, whose thighs were adorned with pure gold of Uphaz. His body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as flaming torches, and his arms and his feet like burnished bronze. The voice of his words was like the voice of a multitude.

I, Daniel, alone saw the vision; for the men who were with me didn't see the vision; but a great quaking fell on them, and they fled to hide themselves. So I was left alone, and saw this great vision. There remained no strength in me; for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption, and I retained no strength.

Yet I heard the voice of his words. When I heard the voice of his words, then I fell into a deep sleep on my face, with my face toward the ground.

Behold, a hand touched me, which set me on my knees and on the palms of my hands.

He said to me, "Daniel, you greatly beloved man, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand upright; for I am now sent to you." When he had spoken this word to me, I stood trembling.

Then he said to me, "Don't be afraid, Daniel; for from the first day that you set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard. I have come for your words' sake."

Then there touched me again one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me. He said, "You greatly beloved man, don't be afraid. Peace be to you. Be strong. Yes, be strong."

When he spoke to me, I was strengthened, and said, "Let my lord speak; for you have strengthened me."
