Ehud was a lefthanded man.

The children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against them; and they served Eglon eighteen years. But when they cried unto the Lord, he raised them up a deliverer, Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite; and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon.

Ehud made him a dagger which had two edges, of a cubit length, and did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh. And he brought the present unto Eglon, who was a very fat man; and when he had made an end to offer it, he sent away the people that bare it.

But he himself turned again from the quarries by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king. And the king said, Keep silence; and all that stood by him went out. And Ehud came unto him as he sat in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone. And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee. And as he arose out of his seat, Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly; and the fat closed upon the blade, so that he could not draw it out.

Then Ehud went forth through the porch, and shut the doors of the parlour upon him, and locked them. When his servants came and saw that the doors were locked, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber. And they tarried till they were ashamed; and when he opened not the doors, they took a key and opened them, and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.

But Ehud had escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries, and got him unto Seirath. And he blew a trumpet in the mountain of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him. Follow after me, he said, for the Lord hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they took the fords of Jordan, and suffered not a man to pass over; and they slew of Moab about ten thousand men, all men of valour; and there escaped not a man. So Moab was subdued that day, and the land had rest fourscore years.
