And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. A thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon that altar. The smoke rose in the still air and spread over the hilltop.

In Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, "Ask what I shall give thee."

And Solomon answered. "Thou hast shewed unto thy servant David my father great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth and in righteousness and in uprightness of heart. Thou hast kept for him this great kindness, that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day."

He paused. The dream held still about him.

"And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father. And I am but a little child. I know not how to go out or come in. And thy servant is in the midst of thy people which thou hast chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude."

Then Solomon made his request. He asked not for long life. He asked not for riches. He asked not for the life of his enemies.

"Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge this thy so great a people?"

And the speech pleased the Lord. God said unto him, "Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life, neither hast asked riches, nor the life of thine enemies, but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment, behold, I have done according to thy words. I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee."

God was not finished. "I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches and honour. And if thou wilt walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did walk, then I will lengthen thy days."

And Solomon awoke. It was a dream. The night air lay cool upon his skin. He arose and came to Jerusalem. He stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord and offered up burnt offerings and peace offerings. And he made a feast to all his servants.