Now Jericho was straitly shut up because of the children of Israel. None went out, and none came in.

And the Lord said unto Joshua, "See, I have given into thine hand Jericho, and the king thereof, and the mighty men of valour. And ye shall compass the city, all ye men of war, and go round about the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days. And seven priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams' horns. And the seventh day ye shall compass the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets. And it shall come to pass, that when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, all the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city shall fall down flat."

And Joshua called the priests, and said unto them, "Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the Lord."

And he said unto the people, "Go forward, and compass the city."

And the armed men went before the priests that blew the trumpets. And the ark of the Lord followed them. And the rereward came after the ark. The priests blew with the trumpets as they went. And they compassed the city once, and came into the camp, and lodged in the camp.

And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of the Lord. And the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns went on before the ark of the Lord, blowing with the trumpets continually. And the armed men went before them, and the rereward came after the ark of the Lord.

And the second day they compassed the city once, and returned into the camp. So they did six days.

And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they rose early about the dawning of the day, and compassed the city seven times. And it came to pass at the seventh time, the priests blew with the trumpets.

And Joshua said unto the people, "Shout, for the Lord hath given you the city!"

So the people shouted, and the priests blew with the trumpets. And when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, and the people shouted with a great shout, the wall fell down flat.