Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants about killing David. But Jonathan greatly delighted in David, and he warned him: “Saul my father seeks to kill you. Now therefore, please take care of yourself in the morning, live in a secret place, and hide yourself.” Jonathan would go out and stand beside his father in the field where David was, speak with his father about him, and tell David whatever he saw.

Jonathan spoke good of David to Saul his father. The king should not sin against his servant David, who had not sinned against him and whose works had been very good toward him. David had put his life in his hand and struck the Philistine, and Yahweh had worked a great victory for all Israel. Saul had seen it and rejoiced. “Why then will you sin against innocent blood, to kill David without a cause?” Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan and swore, “As Yahweh lives, he shall not be put to death.” Jonathan called David, showed him all those things, and brought him to Saul, and David was in his presence as before.

There was war again, and David went out and fought the Philistines and struck them with a great slaughter, and they fled before him. Then an evil spirit from Yahweh was on Saul as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand, while David was playing music. Saul sought to pin David to the wall with the spear, but David slipped away, and the spear stuck in the wall. David fled and escaped that night.

Saul sent messengers to David’s house to watch him and to kill him in the morning. Michal, David’s wife, told him, “If you don’t save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be killed.” So Michal let David down through the window, and he went away, fled, and escaped. Michal took the teraphim and laid it in the bed, put a pillow of goats’ hair at its head, and covered it with clothes. When Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, “He is sick.” Saul sent them back to see David: “Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him.” When the messengers came in, the teraphim was in the bed with the pillow of goats’ hair at its head.

Saul asked Michal why she had deceived him like this and let his enemy go. Michal answered that David had said to her, “Let me go! Why should I kill you?”

David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went and lived in Naioth.
