Saul spake to Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan delighted much in David, and he warned him: “Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself.” Jonathan would go out and stand beside his father in the field where David was, commune with his father of him, and tell David what he saw.

Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father. The king should not sin against his servant David, who had not sinned against him and whose works had been to him-ward very good. David had put his life in his hand and slain the Philistine, and the Lord had wrought a great salvation for all Israel. Saul had seen it and did rejoice. “Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?” Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan and sware, “As the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain.” Jonathan called David, shewed him all those things, and brought him to Saul, and David was in his presence as in times past.

There was war again, and David went out and fought with the Philistines and slew them with a great slaughter, and they fled from him. Then the evil spirit from the Lord was upon Saul as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand, while David played with his hand. Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin, but David slipped away, and Saul smote the javelin into the wall. David fled and escaped that night.

Saul sent messengers unto David’s house to watch him and to slay him in the morning. Michal, David’s wife, told him, “If thou save not thy life to night, to morrow thou shalt be slain.” So Michal let David down through a window, and he went, and fled, and escaped. Michal took an image and laid it in the bed, put a pillow of goats’ hair for his bolster, and covered it with a cloth. When Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, “He is sick.” Saul sent the messengers again to see David: “Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.” When the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed, with a pillow of goats’ hair for his bolster.

Saul asked Michal why she had deceived him so and sent away his enemy. Michal answered that David had said unto her, “Let me go; why should I kill thee?”

So David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
