In the village of Bethany, which was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off, there dwelt a man called Lazarus with his two sisters, Mary and Martha. These three were beloved of Jesus, for he had broken bread at their table and rested beneath their roof many a time. When Lazarus was taken with a grievous sickness, the sisters sent word unto Jesus, saying, "Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick."

When Jesus heard this, he said unto those about him, "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby." And though he loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus, he abode two days still in the same place where he was.

After two days he saith to his disciples, "Let us go into Judaea again."

The disciples said unto him, "Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee; and goest thou thither again?"

Jesus answered them, "Our friend Lazarus sleepeth; but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep."

His disciples said, "Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well."

Then said Jesus unto them plainly, "Lazarus is dead. And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him."

Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his fellowdisciples, "Let us also go, that we may die with him."

When Jesus came unto Bethany, he found that Lazarus had lain in the grave four days already. The house was filled with mourners. Many of the Jews had come from Jerusalem to comfort Martha and Mary concerning their brother. The sound of lamentation rose from within, and women sat about the doorway with veils upon their heads.

Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him upon the road. But Mary sat still in the house.

"Lord," said Martha, "if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. But I know that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee."

Jesus saith unto her, "Thy brother shall rise again."

Martha saith unto him, "I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day."

Jesus said unto her, "I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this?"

She saith unto him, "Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world."

She returned unto the house and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, "The Master is come, and calleth for thee." Mary arose quickly and came unto him. The mourners followed her, supposing that she went unto the grave to weep there.

When Mary was come where Jesus was, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, "Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died."

When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit and was troubled.

"Where have ye laid him?" saith he.

They said unto him, "Lord, come and see."

Jesus wept.

Then said the Jews, "Behold how he loved him!" And some of them said, "Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died?"

Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.

"Take ye away the stone," Jesus said.

Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, "Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days."

Jesus saith unto her, "Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?"

Then they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, "Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me."

And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come forth."

And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin.

Jesus saith unto them, "Loose him, and let him go."
