In the village of Bethany, nigh unto Jerusalem, there dwelt a man called Lazarus with his two sisters, Mary and Martha. The three were beloved of Jesus, and he had eaten at their table and rested beneath their roof. When Lazarus fell grievously sick, the sisters sent word unto Jesus, saying, "Lord, he whom thou lovest is sick."

When Jesus heard this, he said, "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby." Yet he remained two days still in the place where he was.

When he came at last unto Bethany, Lazarus had lain in the grave four days already. The house was filled with mourners, and the sound of weeping carried upon the hillside.

Martha went forth to meet Jesus upon the road. "Lord," said she, "hadst thou been here, my brother had not died. But I know that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee."

Jesus said unto her, "Thy brother shall rise again."

"I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day," Martha answered.

Jesus said unto her, "I am the resurrection, and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this?"

"Yea, Lord," she said. "I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world."

Martha returned unto the house and called her sister apart. "The Master is come," she whispered, "and calleth for thee." Mary rose quickly and went unto him, and fell down at his feet, weeping. "Lord," she said, "hadst thou been here, my brother had not died."

When Jesus saw her weeping, and them also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit and was troubled.

"Where have ye laid him?" he asked.

"Lord, come and see."

And Jesus wept.

They came unto the sepulchre. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.

"Take ye away the stone," Jesus said.

Martha said unto him, "Lord, by this time he stinketh, for he hath been dead four days."

Jesus said unto her, "Said I not unto thee, that if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?"

They took away the stone. Jesus lifted up his eyes and gave thanks. Then he cried with a loud voice:

"Lazarus, come forth!"

And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes, and his face was bound about with a napkin.

Jesus saith unto them, "Loose him, and let him go."
