And it came to pass afterward, that Samson loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah. The lords of the Philistines came up unto her with an offer: Entice him, and see wherein his great strength lieth, and by what means we may bind him to afflict him — and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.

So Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mightest be bound.

Three times he gave her a false answer. Bind me with seven green withs that were never dried, he said — and when the liers in wait abode in the chamber, and she cried, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson! he brake the withs as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire. Bind me fast with new ropes that never were occupied, he said — and he brake them from off his arms like a thread. Weave the seven locks of my head with the web, he said — and he awaked, and went away with the pin of the beam, and with the web.

How canst thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? said Delilah. Thou hast mocked me these three times. And she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, so that his soul was vexed unto death.

And he told her all his heart. There hath not come a razor upon mine head, he said, for I have been a Nazarite unto God from my mother's womb. If I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall be like any other man.

When Delilah saw that he had shewed her all his heart, she sent for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once, for he hath shewed me all his heart. And they came up unto her, and brought the money in their hand. She made him sleep upon her knees, and called for a man, and caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head. And his strength went from him.

The Philistines be upon thee, Samson!

He awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times before, and shake myself. And he wist not that the Lord was departed from him.

The Philistines took him, and put out his eyes. They brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass, and he did grind in the prison house.

Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again.
