Afterward, Samson loved a woman in the valley of Sorek. Her name was Delilah.

The lords of the Philistines came up to her with an offer. "Entice him. Find out where his great strength lies, and by what means we may prevail against him, so that we may bind him and afflict him. And each of us will give you eleven hundred pieces of silver."

So Delilah said to Samson, "Please tell me where your great strength lies. What could bind you, and hold you?"

"If they bind me with seven fresh cords that have never been dried," Samson told her, "then I will become weak, and be like any other man."

So the lords of the Philistines brought her seven fresh cords, and she bound him with them. Men were waiting in ambush in the inner room. Then she cried, "The Philistines are on you, Samson!" And he snapped the cords the way a strand of flax snaps when it touches fire. The secret of his strength stayed hidden.

"You have mocked me and told me lies," Delilah said. "Now please tell me — what could truly bind you?"

"If they bind me tight with new ropes that have never been used, then I will become weak, and be like any other man."

So Delilah took new ropes and bound him with them, and again the ambush waited in the inner room. "The Philistines are on you, Samson!" And he broke the ropes off his arms like thread.

"Until now you have mocked me and told me lies," she said. "Tell me what could bind you."

"If you weave the seven locks of my head into the web of the loom."

So while he slept she wove the locks of his hair into the fabric, and fastened it with the pin. "The Philistines are on you, Samson!" He woke from his sleep and walked away with the pin of the beam, and the fabric with it.

"How can you say, 'I love you,' when your heart is not with me?" she said. "Three times now you have mocked me, and you have not told me where your great strength lies." And she pressed him with her words day after day. She urged him, until his soul was troubled to death.

And he told her all his heart.

"No razor has ever come on my head," he said, "for I have been a Nazirite to God from my mother's womb. If I am shaved, my strength will go from me, and I will become weak, and be like any other man."

Delilah saw that this time he had told her all his heart. She sent and called for the lords of the Philistines. "Come up this once more, for he has told me all his heart." And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, with the silver in their hands.

She made him sleep on her knees. Then she called for a man and had the seven locks of his head shaved off. She began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.

"The Philistines are on you, Samson!"

He woke from his sleep and said, "I will go out as at other times, and shake myself free." But he did not know that Yahweh had departed from him.

The Philistines seized him and put out his eyes. They brought him down to Gaza and bound him with fetters of bronze, and he ground grain at the mill in the prison.

But the hair of his head began to grow again after it was shaved.
