And it came to pass afterward, that Samson loved a woman in the valley of Sorek. Her name was Delilah.

The lords of the Philistines came up unto her with an offer. Entice him, they said, and see wherein his great strength lieth, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him. And we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.

So Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mightest be bound to afflict thee.

If they bind me with seven green withs that were never dried, Samson said unto her, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.

So the lords of the Philistines brought her seven green withs, not yet dried, and she bound him with them, while men lay in wait, abiding in the chamber. Then she cried, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson! And he brake the withs, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire. So the secret of his strength was not known.

Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies, said Delilah. Now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mightest be bound.

If they bind me fast with new ropes that never were occupied, he said, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.

So Delilah took new ropes, and bound him therewith, and again the liers in wait abode in the chamber. The Philistines be upon thee, Samson! And he brake them from off his arms like a thread.

Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies, she said. Tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound.

If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web.

So while he slept she wove the locks of his head with the web, and fastened it with the pin. The Philistines be upon thee, Samson! And he awaked out of his sleep, and went away with the pin of the beam, and with the web.

How canst thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? she said. Thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth. And she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, so that his soul was vexed unto death.

And he told her all his heart.

There hath not come a razor upon mine head, he said, for I have been a Nazarite unto God from my mother's womb. If I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak, and be like any other man.

When Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent word to the lords of the Philistines: Come up this once, for he hath shewed me all his heart. So the lords came up unto her, bringing the money in their hand.

Then she made him sleep upon her knees, and called for a man, who shaved off the seven locks of his head. So she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.

The Philistines be upon thee, Samson!

He awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times before, and shake myself. And he wist not that the Lord was departed from him.

But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes. They brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass, and he did grind in the prison house.

Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
