Afterward, Samson loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah. The lords of the Philistines came up to her with an offer: entice him, find out where his great strength lies and how he may be bound — and each of us will give you eleven hundred pieces of silver.

So Delilah asked Samson, "Please tell me where your great strength lies. What could bind you?"

Three times he gave her a false answer. Bind me with seven fresh cords that were never dried, he said — and when the ambush waited in the inner room and she cried, "The Philistines are on you, Samson!" he snapped them the way flax snaps at a flame. Bind me with new ropes that have never been used, he said — and he broke them off his arms like thread. Weave the seven locks of my head into the loom, he said — and he woke and walked away with the pin and the fabric together.

"How can you say, 'I love you,' when your heart is not with me?" Delilah said. "Three times you have mocked me." And she pressed him with her words day after day, and urged him, until his soul was troubled to death.

So he told her all his heart. "No razor has ever come on my head, for I have been a Nazirite to God from my mother's womb. If I am shaved, my strength will go from me, and I will be like any other man."

Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, and she sent word to the lords of the Philistines: "Come up this once more, for he has told me everything." They came, with the silver in their hands. She made him sleep on her knees, called for a man, and had the seven locks of his head shaved off. And his strength went from him.

"The Philistines are on you, Samson!"

He woke from his sleep and said, "I will go out as at other times, and shake myself free." But he did not know that Yahweh had departed from him.

The Philistines seized him and put out his eyes. They brought him down to Gaza, bound him with fetters of bronze, and set him grinding grain at the mill in the prison.

But the hair of his head began to grow again.
