In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans, Daniel understood by books the number of the years, whereof the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet, that the desolation of Jerusalem would be seventy years.

Then Daniel set his face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer and supplications, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes. He prayed unto the Lord his God, and made confession.

He said, "O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him, and to them that keep his commandments. We have sinned, and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments."

He said, "Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, which spake in thy name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. O Lord, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusion of face."

He prayed, "To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we have rebelled against him. Neither have we obeyed the voice of the Lord our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets."

Then Daniel cried out, "O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, hearken and do; defer not, for thine own sake, O my God: for thy city and thy people are called by thy name."

Yea, whiles Daniel was speaking, and praying, and confessing his sin and the sin of his people Israel, and presenting his supplication before the Lord his God for the holy mountain of his God, even the man Gabriel came unto him about the time of the evening oblation.

Gabriel said unto him, "O Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding. At the beginning of thy supplications the commandment came forth, and I am come to shew thee; for thou art greatly beloved."

Daniel hearkened, and the lamps in the chamber were burning low, and the evening was come. He bowed his face to the ground, and he heard the words of the messenger.
