In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans, Daniel understood by the books the number of the years for which the word of the Lord had come to Jeremiah the prophet, that the desolation of Jerusalem would be seventy years.

Then Daniel set his face to the Lord God, to seek by prayer and petitions, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. He prayed to the Lord his God, and made confession.

He said, "Lord, the great and dreadful God, who keeps covenant and loving kindness with those who love him and keep his commandments. We have sinned, and have dealt perversely. We have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even turning aside from your precepts and from your ordinances."

He said, "Neither have we listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. Lord, righteousness belongs to you, but to us confusion of face."

He prayed, "To the Lord our God belongs mercies and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him. Neither have we obeyed the voice of the Lord our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets."

Then Daniel cried out, "O Lord, hear. O Lord, forgive. O Lord, listen and do. Don't defer, for your own sake, my God, because your city and your people are called by your name."

While Daniel was speaking, and praying, and confessing his sin and the sin of his people Israel, and presenting his supplication before the Lord his God for the holy mountain of his God, the angel Gabriel came to him at the time of the evening offering.

Gabriel said to him, "Daniel, I have now come forth to give you wisdom and understanding. At the beginning of your petitions the commandment went out, and I have come to tell you, for you are greatly beloved."

Daniel listened, and the lamps in the chamber were burning low, and the evening had come. He bowed his face to the ground, and he heard the words of the messenger.
