Jesus left Judaea and departed into Galilee. And he must needs go through Samaria.

Then cometh he to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near to the ground that Jacob gave to Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. And it was about the sixth hour. The sun was overhead. The stones about the well were warm.

There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water.

Jesus saith unto her, "Give me to drink." For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.

Then saith the woman unto him, "How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria?" For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.

Jesus answered, "If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, 'Give me to drink,' thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water."

The woman saith, "Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From whence then hast thou that living water?"

Jesus saith, "Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. It shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life."

The woman saith, "Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw."

Jesus saith, "Go, call thy husband, and come hither."

"I have no husband."

Jesus said, "Thou hast well said. Thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband."

The woman saith, "Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship."

Jesus saith, "The hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father. But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth."

The woman saith, "I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ. When he is come, he will tell us all things."

Jesus saith, "I that speak unto thee am he."

The woman then left her waterpot and went into the city and saith to the men, "Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did. Is not this the Christ?"

The waterpot sat upon the stone rim.