Jesus left Judea and departed into Galilee. He had to pass through Samaria.

He came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the ground that Jacob gave to Joseph. Jacob's well was there. Jesus, wearied with his journey, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour. The sun was overhead. The stones around the well were warm.

A woman of Samaria came to draw water.

Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink." His disciples had gone into the city to buy food.

The woman said to him, "How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman?" For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.

Jesus answered, "If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, 'Give me a drink,' you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water."

She said, "Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water?"

Jesus said, "Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again, but whoever drinks of the water that I give him will never thirst. It will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life."

The woman said, "Sir, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty and will not have to come here to draw."

Jesus said, "Go, call your husband, and come here."

"I have no husband."

Jesus said, "You have well said. You have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband."

The woman said, "Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you say that Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship."

Jesus said, "The hour comes when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. But the hour comes, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth."

The woman said, "I know that Messiah comes. When he comes, he will declare all things to us."

Jesus said, "I who speak to you am he."

The woman left her water jar beside the well. She went into the city and said to the people, "Come, see a man who told me everything I ever did. Can this be the Christ?"

The water jar sat on the stone rim.