And Joseph commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth; and put my silver cup in the sack's mouth of the youngest. And the steward did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.

In the morning the men were sent away with their asses. They were not yet far from the city when Joseph sent his steward after them. Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? he said. Is not this the cup in which my lord drinketh?

God forbid, they answered, that thy servants should do such a thing. With whomsoever it be found, let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen.

Then he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest; and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. They rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city, and fell before Joseph on the ground.

What deed is this that ye have done? said Joseph. And Judah said, God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we are my lord's servants. But Joseph said, God forbid that I should do so: the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you, get you up in peace unto your father.

Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy servant speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant. My lord asked his servants, Have ye a father, or a brother? And we said, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.

Thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two sons; and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since. If ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.

Now his life is bound up in the lad's life. When my father seeth that the lad is not with us, he will die. For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father. Now therefore let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren. For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me? lest I see the evil that shall come on my father.
