After Sarah had given birth to Isaac, the child grew, and was weaned. Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. But Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, mocking. So she said to Abraham, "Cast out this servant and her son, for the son of this servant will not be heir with my son, with Isaac."

The thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight on account of his son. God said to Abraham, "Don't let it be grievous in your sight because of the boy, and because of your servant. In all that Sarah says to you, listen to her voice. For your offspring will be named through Isaac. I will also make a nation of the son of the servant, because he is your child."

Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder. He gave her the child, and sent her away. She departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.

The water in the bottle was spent. She put the child under one of the bushes. She went and sat down opposite him, a good way off, about a bow shot away. For she said, "Don't let me see the death of the child." She sat opposite him, and lifted up her voice and wept.

God heard the voice of the boy. The angel of God called to Hagar out of the sky, and said to her, "What troubles you, Hagar? Don't be afraid. For God has heard the voice of the boy where he is. Get up, lift up the boy, and hold him with your hand. For I will make him a great nation."

God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. She went, filled the bottle with water, and gave the boy a drink. The water was cool in the heat of the day, and the child drank.

God was with the boy, and he grew. He lived in the wilderness, and became, as he grew up, an archer. He lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him out of the land of Egypt.

The morning sun rose over the wilderness, and Hagar sat by the well with her son. The water was a gift in the dry place, and the day grew warm above the sand.
