After Sarah had borne Isaac, the child grew, and was weaned. Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. But Sarah beheld the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had borne unto Abraham, mocking. So she said unto Abraham, "Cast out this bondwoman and her son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac."

The thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of his son. And God said unto Abraham, "Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman. In all that Sarah hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice. For in Isaac shall thy seed be called. And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation, because he is thy seed."

Abraham arose up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder. He gave her the child, and sent her away. She departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.

The water in the bottle was spent. She cast the child under one of the shrubs. She went, and sat her down over against him a good way off, as it were a bowshot. For she said, "Let me not see the death of the child." She sat over against him, and lifted up her voice, and wept.

God heard the voice of the lad. The angel of God called unto Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, "What aileth thee, Hagar? fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is. Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will make him a great nation."

And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. She went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink. The water was cool in the heat of the day, and the child did drink.

God was with the lad, and he grew. He dwelt in the wilderness, and became, as he grew up, an archer. He dwelt in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt.

The morning sun arose over the wilderness, and Hagar sat by the well with her son. The water was a gift in the dry place, and the day grew warm above the sand.
