Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. And Ahab spake unto Naboth, saying, "Give me thy vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near unto my house: and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it; or, if it seem good to thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money."

And Naboth said unto Ahab, "The Lord forbid it me, that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee."

And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him. And he laid him down upon his bed, and turned away his face, and would eat no bread.

But Jezebel his wife came unto him, and said unto him, "Why is thy spirit so sad, that thou eatest no bread?" And he told her what Naboth had said.

And Jezebel his wife said unto him, "Dost thou now govern the kingdom of Israel? arise, and eat bread, and let thine heart be merry: I will give thee the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite."

So she wrote letters in Ahab's name, and sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters unto the elders and to the nobles that were in his city. She wrote a charge against Naboth, and called the people together, and brought false witnesses against him, which said that Naboth had blasphemed God and the king. So they carried him forth out of the city, and stoned him with stones, that he died.

And it came to pass, when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to take possession of it.

And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, "Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, which is in Samaria: behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, whither he is gone down to possess it. And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, 'Hast thou killed, and also taken possession?'"

Elijah went down unto the vineyard. And when Ahab saw him, Ahab said, "Hast thou found me, O mine enemy?"

And Elijah answered, "I have found thee: because thou hast sold thyself to work evil in the sight of the Lord. Behold, I will bring evil upon thee."

The vineyard of Naboth lay still under the sun. The vines stood untouched, and Ahab stood before the prophet upon the ground that had been bought with blood.
