It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom an hundred and twenty princes, and over these three presidents, of whom Daniel was first. Daniel was preferred above them because an excellent spirit was in him, and the king thought to set him over the whole realm.

Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel, but they could find none, forasmuch as he was faithful.

Then said these men, "We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God."

They assembled before the king. "King Darius, live for ever. Establish a royal statute — whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save of thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions." Wherefore king Darius signed the decree.

Now when Daniel knew the writing was signed, he went into his house. His windows were open in his chamber toward Jerusalem. He kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime.

Then these men found Daniel praying. They came before the king. "That Daniel, of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petition three times a day."

Then the king was sore displeased with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him. He laboured till the going down of the sun. But the law could not be changed.

Then the king commanded, and they cast Daniel into the den of lions. The king spake unto Daniel, "Thy God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee." And a stone was laid upon the mouth of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet.

The king went to his palace and passed the night fasting. Neither were instruments of musick brought before him. And his sleep went from him.

Then the king arose very early in the morning, and went in haste unto the den. He cried with a lamentable voice, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God able to deliver thee from the lions?"

Then said Daniel, "O king, live for ever. My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me, forasmuch as before him innocency was found in me."

Then was the king exceeding glad, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. And no manner of hurt was found upon him.

The stone lay rolled aside from the mouth of the den.