It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom a hundred and twenty satraps, and over them three presidents, of whom Daniel was first. Daniel was distinguished above them because an excellent spirit was in him, and the king thought to set him over the whole realm.

The presidents and satraps sought occasion against Daniel, but could find no fault, because he was faithful.

Then these men said, "We will not find any occasion against this Daniel, unless we find it concerning the law of his God."

They assembled before the king. "King Darius, live forever. Establish a decree — whoever asks a petition of any god or man for thirty days, except of you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions." Darius signed the decree.

When Daniel knew the writing was signed, he went into his house. His windows were open in his room toward Jerusalem. He kneeled three times that day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did before.

Then these men found Daniel praying. They came before the king. "Daniel does not regard you, O king, nor the decree you have signed. He makes his petition three times a day."

The king was very displeased, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him. He labored till the going down of the sun. But the law could not be changed.

The king commanded, and they cast Daniel into the den of lions. The king said to Daniel, "Your God whom you serve continually, he will deliver you." A stone was laid on the mouth of the den. The king sealed it with his signet ring.

The king went to his palace. He passed the night fasting. No music was brought before him. His sleep fled from him.

Very early in the morning, the king arose and went in haste to the den. He cried with a troubled voice, "O Daniel, servant of the living God, is your God able to deliver you from the lions?"

Daniel said, "O king, live forever. My God sent his angel and shut the lions' mouths. They have not hurt me, because before him innocence was found in me."

The king was exceedingly glad. He commanded that Daniel be taken up. No wound was found on him.

The stone lay rolled aside from the mouth of the den.