Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a prostitute. Gilead was his father, and Gilead’s wife bore him sons. When his wife’s sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out. “You will not inherit in our father’s house,” they told him, “for you are the son of another woman.” So Jephthah fled from his brothers and lived in the land of Tob, and outlaws joined him and went out with him.

After a while, the children of Ammon made war against Israel, and the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah back out of the land of Tob. “Come and be our chief,” they said, “that we may fight with the children of Ammon.”

Jephthah answered, “Didn’t you hate me, and drive me out of my father’s house? Why have you come to me now when you are in distress?” The elders answered that they had therefore turned again to him, that he might go with them and fight, and be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.

“If you bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon, and Yahweh delivers them before me, will I be your head?” They answered, “Yahweh will be witness between us. Surely we will do what you say.”

Then Jephthah went with the elders, and the people made him head and chief over them. And Jephthah spoke all his words before Yahweh in Mizpah.
Jephthah then sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon: “What do you have to do with me, that you have come to me to fight against my land?” The king answered that Israel had taken away his land coming up out of Egypt, from the Arnon to the Jabbok and to the Jordan, and demanded it be restored peaceably.

Jephthah sent messengers again: Israel had not taken the land of Moab or of the children of Ammon. Coming up from Egypt, Israel had been refused passage by Edom and by Moab, had gone around their lands, and had not entered Moab’s border. When Sihon king of the Amorites also refused and fought against Israel at Jahaz, Yahweh, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into Israel’s hand, and Israel possessed the land of the Amorites from the Arnon to the Jabbok.

So now Yahweh, the God of Israel, had dispossessed the Amorites before his people—and should Ammon possess that land? “Won’t you possess that which Chemosh your god gives you to possess?” Jephthah asked. Israel had lived in Heshbon, Aroer, and the cities along the Arnon three hundred years—why had Ammon not recovered them in that time? “Therefore I have not sinned against you, but you do me wrong to war against me. May Yahweh the Judge be judge today between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.”

However, the king of the children of Ammon didn’t listen to the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
