Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valour, and he was the son of an harlot. Gilead begat him, and Gilead’s wife bare him sons. When his wife’s sons grew up, they thrust out Jephthah. “Thou shalt not inherit in our father’s house,” they said unto him, “for thou art the son of a strange woman.” So Jephthah fled from his brethren and dwelt in the land of Tob, and vain men gathered to him and went out with him.

In process of time, the children of Ammon made war against Israel, and the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah from the land of Tob. “Come, and be our captain,” they said, “that we may fight with the children of Ammon.”

Jephthah answered, “Did not ye hate me, and expel me out of my father’s house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?” The elders answered that they therefore turned again to him, that he might go with them and fight, and be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.

“If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and the Lord deliver them before me, shall I be your head?” They answered, “The Lord be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.”

Then Jephthah went with the elders, and the people made him head and captain over them. And Jephthah uttered all his words before the Lord in Mizpeh.
Jephthah then sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon: “What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?” The king answered that Israel took away his land coming out of Egypt, from Arnon unto Jabbok and unto Jordan, and demanded those lands be restored.

Jephthah sent messengers again: Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor of the children of Ammon. Coming up from Egypt, Israel had been refused passage by Edom and by Moab, had compassed their lands, and came not within the border of Moab. When Sihon king of the Amorites also refused and fought against Israel at Jahaz, the Lord God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into Israel’s hand, and Israel possessed the land of the Amorites from Arnon unto Jabbok.

So now the Lord God of Israel had dispossessed the Amorites from before his people—and should Ammon possess it? “Wilt not thou possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to possess?” Jephthah asked. Israel had dwelt in Heshbon, Aroer, and the cities along the coasts of Arnon three hundred years—why had Ammon not recovered them within that time? “Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me: the Lord the Judge be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.”

Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
