David made this song at night. He had been without, perhaps in the country between the cities, perhaps upon the roof of his own house. He had been looking up at the sky a long while.

The moon was out. The stars were out. He had not been able to count them. He knew the names of some of the patterns the elder men had taught him. He knew not the names of the rest.

He began the song with the name of the LORD.

"O LORD our Lord," he sang. "How excellent is thy name in all the earth. Thou who hast set thy glory above the heavens."

He sang of the strength that the LORD had ordained out of the mouth of babes and sucklings. He sang that the children could still the enemy and the avenger. He had heard children at the well in the morning, and at the gate when the day was ending. Their voices were small. They were not afraid of any thing. The strength that came out of them was not the strength of grown men.

He turned his face up again at the sky.

"When I consider thy heavens," he sang. "The work of thy fingers. The moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained."

The fingers had set the stars in their places. The same fingers had hung the moon. David mused upon that. The hands that made the stars had made him as well.

He paused a long while or ever he sang the next part. The next part was a question. He had thought upon it many times. He sang it now.

"What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him?"

He held his hand up against the sky. The hand was small against the stars. The fingers were thin in the moonlight. He sang the answer.

"For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels. And hast crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet."

He recited them. He sang what was under the small feet.

"All sheep and oxen. Yea, and the beasts of the field. The fowl of the air. And the fish of the sea. And whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas."

The paths of the seas were the long roads that the fish made under the water. He had stood upon the shore and watched. The fish went where men could not see them. The fowl went where men could not follow. Even those were under the small feet.

He brought the song back unto whence he had started.

"O LORD our Lord. How excellent is thy name in all the earth."

The last note faded. The sky changed not. The stars were the same stars they had been before the song. David stood where he had been standing, his hand yet raised against the night, the moon yet over his shoulder, the song finished and the heavens yet excellent above him.
