Jacob dwelt in the land of Canaan, in the land wherein his father was a stranger. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren. He brought unto his father their evil report.

Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age. He made him a coat of many colours. The fabric was fine. When Joseph wore it among the tents, the colours caught the light.

His brethren saw it. They hated him. They could not speak peaceably unto him.

Joseph dreamed a dream. He told his brethren. "Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed. We were binding sheaves in the field. My sheaf arose and also stood upright. Your sheaves stood round about and made obeisance to my sheaf."

His brethren looked upon him. "Shalt thou indeed reign over us?" They hated him yet the more for his dreams.

He dreamed yet again. He told his brethren. "The sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me." He told his father also. His father rebuked him. "What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to the earth before thee?"

His brethren envied him. But his father observed the saying.

His brethren went to feed the flock in Shechem. Israel said unto Joseph, "Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? Come, I will send thee unto them."

Joseph said, "Here am I."

"Go, I pray thee," said Israel. "See whether it be well with thy brethren and bring me word." He sent him forth out of the vale of Hebron.

Joseph walked northward. He came to Shechem and wandered in the open field. A certain man found him. "What seekest thou?"

"I seek my brethren. Tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks."

"They are departed hence," the man said. "I heard them say, 'Let us go to Dothan.'"

Joseph went after his brethren. He found them in Dothan. They saw him afar off, even before he came nigh unto them. The figure in the coloured coat was plain against the brown hillside.

Before he came nigh, they conspired against him to slay him. They said one to another, "Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now, and let us slay him and cast him into some pit. We will say some evil beast hath devoured him. And we shall see what will become of his dreams."

Reuben heard it. He said, "Let us not kill him." He spake unto them. "Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him." He purposed to rid him out of their hands and to deliver him to his father again.

When Joseph was come unto his brethren, they seized him. They stripped him of his coat — his coat of many colours that was upon him. They took him and cast him into a pit. The pit was empty. There was no water in it. The walls were dry stone and the opening above him was a circle of sky.

They sat down to eat bread. They lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt. The caravan moved slowly through the heat.

Judah said unto his brethren, "What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh." And his brethren were content.

Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen. They drew up Joseph and lifted him out of the pit. They sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver. The traders took Joseph down into Egypt. He went with them, and the coloured coat remained behind in the dust.

Reuben returned unto the pit. He looked down. Joseph was not there. He rent his clothes. He returned unto his brethren. "The child is not. And I, whither shall I go?"

They took Joseph's coat. They killed a kid of the goats and dipped the coat in the blood. The blood soaked into the fine fabric and darkened the colours. They brought it unto their father. "This have we found. Know now whether it be thy son's coat or no."

Jacob beheld it. He knew it straightway. "It is my son's coat. An evil beast hath devoured him. Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces."

Jacob rent his clothes. He put sackcloth upon his loins. He mourned for his son many days. All his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted. He said, "For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning."

Thus his father wept for him. And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard.