Jacob dwelt in Canaan and loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age. He made him a coat of many colours.

His brethren saw the coat. They hated him. They could not speak peaceably unto him.

Joseph dreamed a dream and told his brethren. "We were binding sheaves in the field. My sheaf arose and stood upright. Your sheaves stood round about and made obeisance to my sheaf."

His brethren looked upon him. "Shalt thou indeed reign over us?" They hated him yet the more for his dreams.

He dreamed again. The sun, moon, and eleven stars made obeisance to him. His father rebuked him. "Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren come to bow down before thee?" His brethren envied him. His father observed the saying.

His brethren went to feed the flock in Shechem. Jacob said unto Joseph, "Go now. See whether it be well with thy brethren." Joseph walked northward. A man told him they had gone to Dothan. Joseph followed.

They saw him afar off. The coloured coat was plain against the brown hillside. "Behold, this dreamer cometh," they said. "Let us slay him and cast him into some pit."

Reuben said, "Shed no blood. Cast him into this pit but lay no hand upon him." He purposed to deliver him unto his father.

When Joseph came, they seized him and stripped his coat. They cast him into an empty pit. No water was in it. The walls were dry stone.

They sat down to eat bread. They beheld Ishmeelite traders from Gilead with camels bearing spicery, going down to Egypt.

Judah said, "What profit if we slay our brother? Let us sell him." They drew Joseph up and sold him for twenty pieces of silver. The merchants took him toward Egypt.

Reuben returned unto the pit. Joseph was not there. He rent his clothes. "The child is not. Whither shall I go?"

They killed a kid of the goats and dipped the coat in blood. They brought it unto their father. "This have we found. Is it thy son's coat?"

Jacob knew it. "My son's coat. An evil beast hath devoured him. Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces." He rent his garments. He put sackcloth upon his loins. He mourned many days.

All rose to comfort him, but he refused. "I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning." Thus his father wept for him.