The people of Israel were encamped at Shittim, on the east side of the Jordan, in the days before the river was crossed and the cities of Canaan were taken. And Joshua the son of Nun sent two men out from the camp by night.

Joshua the son of Nun secretly sent two men out of Shittim as spies, saying, "Go, view the land, including Jericho." They went and came into the house of a prostitute whose name was Rahab, and slept there.

The king of Jericho was told, "Behold, men of the children of Israel came in here tonight to spy out the land."

Jericho's king sent to Rahab, saying, "Bring out the men who have come to you, who have entered into your house; for they have come to spy out all the land."

The woman took the two men and hid them. Then she said, "Yes, the men came to me, but I didn't know where they came from.

About the time of the shutting of the gate, when it was dark, the men went out. Where the men went, I don't know. Pursue them quickly. You may catch up with them."

But she had brought them up to the roof, and hidden them under the stalks of flax which she had laid in order on the roof.

The men pursued them along the way to the fords of the Jordan River. As soon as those who pursued them had gone out, they shut the gate.

Before they had lain down, she came up to them on the roof.

She said to the men, "I know that Yahweh has given you the land, and that the fear of you has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you.

For we have heard how Yahweh dried up the water of the Red Sea before you, when you came out of Egypt; and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon and to Og, whom you utterly destroyed.

As soon as we had heard it, our hearts melted, and there wasn't any more spirit in any man, because of you: for Yahweh your God, he is God in heaven above, and on earth beneath.

Now therefore, please swear to me by Yahweh, since I have dealt kindly with you, that you also will deal kindly with my father's house, and give me a true sign;

and that you will save alive my father, my mother, my brothers, and my sisters, and all that they have, and will deliver our lives from death."

The men said to her, "Our life for yours, if you don't talk about this business of ours; and it shall be, when Yahweh gives us the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with you."

Then she let them down by a cord through the window; for her house was on the side of the wall, and she lived on the wall.

And the cord hung down against the wall of her house. The two men went toward the hills, where they would stay for three days as she had told them; and the king's officers went on toward the fords of the Jordan, looking for them where they were not. And the house of Rahab on the wall kept its hidden bargain with the men who had come up over the Jordan. And so it was in the days when Joshua sent the spies into Jericho.
