In the four hundred and eightieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month Zif, Solomon began to build the house of the Lord.

The house which king Solomon built for the Lord, the length thereof was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits, and the height thereof thirty cubits. And the porch before the temple of the house, twenty cubits was the length thereof, according to the breadth of the house; and ten cubits was the breadth thereof before the house.

And for the house Solomon made windows of narrow lights. And against the wall of the house he built chambers round about, against the walls of the house round about, both of the temple and of the oracle. The nethermost chamber was five cubits broad, and the middle was six cubits broad, and the third was seven cubits broad.

And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made ready before it was brought thither: so that there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building.

The men of Solomon, and the men of Hiram, and the Gebalites did hew and prepare the timber and the stones to build the house. They laboured many years, and the work went forward without the sound of iron in the holy place.

And the word of the Lord came to Solomon, saying, "Concerning this house which thou art in building, if thou wilt walk in my statutes, and execute my judgments, and keep all my commandments to walk in them; then will I perform my word with thee, which I spake unto David thy father: And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel."

So Solomon built the house, and finished it. And he covered the inside thereof with cedar, and the floor of the house with planks of fir. He overlaid the inside of the house with pure gold, and he made a partition by the chains of gold before the oracle, and he overlaid it with gold.

And the whole altar that was by the oracle he overlaid with gold. And the whole house he overlaid with gold, until he had finished all the house.

And in the eleventh year, in the month Bul, was the house finished throughout all the parts thereof, and according to all the fashion of it. So was he seven years in building it.
