In the four hundred eightieth year after the children of Israel had come out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv, Solomon began to build the house of the Lord.

The house which King Solomon built for the Lord, its length was sixty cubits, and its width twenty cubits, and its height thirty cubits. The porch in front of the temple of the house was twenty cubits long, according to the width of the house. Ten cubits was its width before the house.

Solomon set up windows of fixed lattice in the house. He built stories against the wall of the house round about, against the walls of the house round about, both of the temple and of the inner sanctuary. The lower story was five cubits wide, and the middle was six cubits wide, and the third was seven cubits wide.

The house, when it was being built, was built of stone made ready at the quarry. There was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was in building.

The men of Solomon, and the men of Hiram, and the Gebalites cut and prepared the timber and the stones to build the house. They labored for many years, and the work continued without the sound of iron in the holy place.

The word of the Lord came to Solomon, saying, "Concerning this house which you are building, if you will walk in my statutes, and execute my ordinances, and keep all my commandments to walk in them, then I will establish my word with you, which I spoke to David your father. I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel."

So Solomon built the house and finished it. He covered the inside with cedar wood, and the floors with planks of cypress wood. He overlaid the inside of the house with pure gold, and he made a partition with chains of gold before the inner sanctuary, and he overlaid it with gold.

The whole altar that was by the inner sanctuary he overlaid with gold. The whole house he overlaid with gold, until all the house was finished.

In the eleventh year, in the month of Bul, the house was finished throughout all its parts, and according to all its plans. So Solomon built it in seven years.
