The word came unto Jeremiah from the Lord in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah: “Go unto the house of the Rechabites, and speak unto them, and bring them into the house of the Lord, into one of the chambers, and give them wine to drink.”

So Jeremiah took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habaziniah, and his brethren, and all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites. He brought them into the house of the Lord, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan, the son of Igdaliah. He set before them pots full of wine, and cups, and said unto them, “Drink ye wine.”

“We will drink no wine,” they said: “for Jonadab the son of Rechab our father commanded us, Ye shall drink no wine, neither ye, nor your sons for ever: neither shall ye build house, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any: but all your days ye shall dwell in tents; that ye may live many days in the land where ye be strangers.” Thus had they obeyed the voice of Jonadab, they, and their wives, their sons, and their daughters, and had dwelt in tents. But when Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came up into the land, they said, “Come, and let us go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans, and for fear of the army of the Syrians.” So they dwelt at Jerusalem.

Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah: “Go and tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will ye not receive instruction to hearken to my words?” The sons of Jonadab obeyed their father’s commandment, and unto this day they drink no wine. “Notwithstanding I have spoken unto you, rising early and speaking; but ye hearkened not unto me,” saith the Lord. He had sent all his servants the prophets, saying, “Return ye now every man from his evil way, and amend your doings, and go not after other gods to serve them, and ye shall dwell in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers.” But they had not inclined their ear, nor hearkened unto him.

Therefore the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, said he would bring upon Judah and upon all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that he had pronounced against them, “because I have spoken unto them, but they have not heard; and I have called unto them, but they have not answered.”

And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rechabites, “Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel; Because ye have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts, and done according unto all that he hath commanded you: therefore thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel; Jonadab the son of Rechab shall not want a man to stand before me for ever.”
