Yahweh’s word came to Jeremiah in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah: “Go to the house of the Rechabites, and speak to them, and bring them into Yahweh’s house, into one of the rooms, and give them wine to drink.”

So Jeremiah took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habazziniah, with his brothers, all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites. He brought them into Yahweh’s house, into the room of the sons of Hanan the son of Igdaliah. He set before them bowls full of wine, and cups, and said to them, “Drink wine!”

“We will drink no wine,” they said, “for Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us, ‘You shall drink no wine, neither you nor your children, forever. You shall not build a house, sow seed, plant a vineyard, or have any; but all your days you shall dwell in tents, that you may live many days in the land in which you live as nomads.’” They had obeyed the voice of Jonadab, they, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, and had lived in tents. But when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up into the land, they said, “Come! Let’s go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans, and for fear of the army of the Syrians.” So they dwelt at Jerusalem.

Then Yahweh’s word came to Jeremiah: “Go and tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, ‘Will you not receive instruction to listen to my words?’” The sons of Jonadab obeyed their father’s commandment, and to this day they drink no wine. “But I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking, and you have not listened to me,” says Yahweh. He had sent all his servants the prophets, saying, “Every one of you must return now from his evil way, amend your doings, and do not go after other gods to serve them. Then you will dwell in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers.” But they had not inclined their ear, nor listened to him.

Therefore Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel, said he would bring on Judah and on all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that he had pronounced against them, “because I have spoken to them, but they have not heard; and I have called to them, but they have not answered.”

Jeremiah said to the house of the Rechabites, “Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Because you have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts, and done according to all that he commanded you,’ therefore Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Jonadab the son of Rechab will not lack a man to stand before me forever.’”
