Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran. The road stretched northward across dry hills, and the sun moved westward as he walked.

He lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all the night, because the sun was set. He took of the stones of that place and put it for his pillow, and lay down in that place to sleep.

The ground was hard. The stone pressed against the side of his head. The air grew cold as darkness fell upon the open land. He was alone.

He dreamed. And behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. The angels of God were ascending and descending on it. They moved upon it in steady procession, their forms bright against the dark sky.

The Lord stood above it. He spake.

"I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac. The land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed. Thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth. Thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south. In thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed."

Then God said, "Behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land. I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of."

Jacob awaked out of his sleep. He said, "Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not." He was afraid. He said, "How dreadful is this place! This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven."

He rose up early in the morning. He took the stone that he had put for his pillow and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it. He called the name of that place Bethel.

Then Jacob vowed a vow, saying, "If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God. This stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house. Of all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give the tenth unto thee."