Abram was ninety and nine years old when the Lord appeared unto him.

"I am the Almighty God. Walk before me, and be thou perfect. I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly."

Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him.

"As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee. Thy name shall no more be called Abram, but Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.

"And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee. I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee, for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. And I will give thee the land wherein thou art a stranger, all Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God."

Then God gave him the keeping of it.

"Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore, thou and thy seed after thee in their generations. Every man child among you shall be circumcised, for a token of the covenant betwixt me and you. He that is eight days old shall be circumcised, born in the house or bought of a stranger; and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. The man child not circumcised shall be cut off from his people, for he hath broken my covenant."

There was a second name to change.

"As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be. And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her; yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations, and kings of people shall be of her."

Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed.

He said in his heart, "Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old? Shall Sarah, that is ninety, bear?"

He said unto God, "O that Ishmael might live before thee!"

"Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed," God said, "and thou shalt call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.

"And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful and multiply him exceedingly. Twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation. But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time next year."

And he left off talking, and God went up from Abraham.

In that selfsame day Abraham took Ishmael his son, and every male born in his house or bought with money, and circumcised them, as God had said unto him.

Abraham was ninety and nine years old, and Ishmael his son thirteen. In the selfsame day were both circumcised, and all the men of his house.
