Abram was ninety-nine years old when Yahweh appeared to him.

"I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless. I will make my covenant between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly."

Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him.

"As for me, behold, my covenant is with you. Your name will no more be called Abram. Your name will be Abraham, for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations.

"I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and make nations of you, and kings will come out of you. I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you, throughout their generations, for an everlasting covenant — to be a God to you and to your offspring after you. I will give you the land where you are traveling, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God."

Then God told Abraham how to keep the covenant.

"As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. Every male among you shall be circumcised. It will be a token of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old shall be circumcised, whether born in the house or bought from a foreigner. My covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. The male who is not circumcised shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant."

There was a second name to change.

"As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai. Her name shall be Sarah. I will bless her, and give you a son by her. Yes, I will bless her, and she will be a mother of nations. Kings of peoples will come from her."

Abraham fell on his face, and he laughed.

He said in his heart, "Will a child be born to a man of a hundred years? Will Sarah, who is ninety, give birth?"

Then he said to God, "Oh that Ishmael might live before you!"

"No," God said. "Sarah your wife will bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his offspring after him.

"As for Ishmael, I have heard you. I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful and multiply him exceedingly. He will become the father of twelve princes, and a great nation. But I will establish my covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this set time next year."

When he had finished, God went up from Abraham.

That same day Abraham took Ishmael his son, and every male born in his house or bought with his money, and circumcised them, as God had said to him.

Abraham was ninety-nine years old, and Ishmael his son was thirteen. In the same day both were circumcised, and all the men of the household with them.
