Peter called his readers to come unto Christ, the living stone disallowed of men, but chosen of God and precious. They also were lively stones, built up a spiritual house and an holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Scripture named him the elect corner stone laid in Sion. Unto them which believed he was precious, whilst the disobedient stumbled at the word. They who in time past were not a people were now the people of God; they who had not obtained mercy had now obtained mercy. They were a chosen generation called out of darkness into God’s marvellous light to shew forth his praises.

As strangers and pilgrims, they were to abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul and keep their conversation honest among the Gentiles. Those who spoke against them as evildoers might behold their good works and glorify God. Peter bade them submit to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake and put ignorant accusations to silence by well doing. Their liberty was not to become a cloke of maliciousness; they were servants of God. “Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.”

Servants were to be subject to their masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. It was thankworthy if a man for conscience toward God endured grief, suffering wrongfully. There was no glory if, when buffeted for faults, he took it patiently; but if he did well, suffered for it, and took it patiently, this was acceptable with God. Peter said they were called to this, because Christ also suffered for them, leaving an example that they should follow his steps.

Christ was the one who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. When reviled, he reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. He bare their sins in his own body on the tree, that they, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness; by his stripes they were healed. They had been as sheep going astray, but were now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of their souls.
