In time past, God spake unto the fathers by the prophets at sundry times and in divers manners. In these last days, he hath spoken by his Son. The Son is appointed heir of all things, and by him God made the worlds.

The Son is the brightness of God's glory and the express image of his person. He upholdeth all things by the word of his power. When he had by himself purged sins, he sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high. His inherited name is more excellent than that of the angels.

Unto no angel did God say, Thou art my Son, or promise to be unto him a Father. When the firstbegotten is brought into the world, the angels are commanded to worship him. Angels are made spirits and ministers as a flame, but unto the Son God speaketh of an everlasting throne and a righteous sceptre. He loveth righteousness, hateth iniquity, and is anointed with gladness above his fellows.

The Son is also addressed as Lord, who laid earth's foundation and formed the heavens. They shall perish and wax old as a garment. They shall be folded and changed, but he remaineth the same and his years fail not. No angel is bidden to sit on God's right hand until enemies become his footstool. Angels are ministering spirits sent forth for them who shall be heirs of salvation.

Therefore the hearers must give more earnest heed to the things heard lest they slip. If the word spoken by angels was stedfast and every transgression received a just recompence, neglect of so great salvation can bring no escape. The Lord first spake this salvation; they that heard confirmed it; God added witness through signs, wonders, divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Ghost according to his will.

The world to come is not subjected unto angels. A testimony asketh, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? Man was made a little lower than angels, crowned with glory and honour, with all things put under his feet. If all things are subjected, nothing is left without; yet all things are not now seen under him.

But Jesus is seen. He was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death and is now crowned with glory and honour. By God's grace he tasted death for every man. It became him, for whom and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings.

He that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one. Therefore Jesus is not ashamed to call them brethren. Jesus speaketh of declaring God’s name unto his brethren, of praising him in the congregation, and of standing with the children whom God hath given him.

Those children are partakers of flesh and blood. The Son likewise took part of the same, that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, the devil, and deliver them kept in lifelong bondage through fear of death. His help is directed not unto angels but unto the seed of Abraham.

Therefore it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren in all things. In this likeness and suffering he became a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, making reconciliation for the sins of the people. Because he himself suffered being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted.
