There was a man named Job who dwelt in the land of Uz. Job was a good man. He loved God. He was upright and kind. He turned away from all evil.

Job had a great household. Seven sons and three daughters. They loved one another, and were wont to gather for meals and feasts continually.

And Job was rich. He had seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she-asses. He had many servants to keep them. He was the greatest man in all that country.

Every morning, Job would rise up early and pray for his children. He would have them be near unto God. Such was his fatherhood.

Then came the worst day of Job's life.

A messenger came running in, out of breath. "The Sabeans fell upon us! They took away all thine oxen and asses! They smote the servants with the edge of the sword! I only am escaped to tell thee!"

While he was yet speaking, there came also another. "The fire of God is fallen from heaven! It hath burned up the sheep and the shepherds! I only am escaped to tell thee!"

While he was yet speaking, there came also another. "The Chaldeans took away the camels! They slew the servants with the edge of the sword! I only am escaped to tell thee!"

And while he was yet speaking, there came also another. This man could scarce speak. His voice trembled.

"Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. And, behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon them. They are all gone. I only am escaped to tell thee."

One message after another after another. All things — the cattle, the servants, and worst of all, his ten children — gone in one afternoon.

Then Job arose. He rent his mantle. He shaved his head. He fell down upon the ground.

He said:

"Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord."

Then was the chamber still. Job knelt upon the rent fabric of his mantle, his head bare, his hands open upon the ground.
