The mount Sinai stood under a great cloud, and thunders rolled along its slopes. The voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder and louder, and the smoke ascended as the smoke of a furnace. The people of Israel stood at the nether part of the mount, and they trembled where they stood.

Then God spake all these words out of the cloud, saying, "I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me."

He said, "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, nor any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God."

And he said, "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain."

Then he said, "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: but the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work."

He said, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee."

He went on, "Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour."

And he said, "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's."

And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking. They trembled and stood afar off, and they said unto Moses, "Speak thou with us, and we will hear: but let not God speak with us, lest we die."

Moses said unto the people, "Fear not: for God is come to prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sin not." And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was.
