About the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught. The Jews who heard him marvelled. “How knoweth this man letters, having never learned?” they said.

Jesus answered them, “My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him.” Then he pressed the question back on his hearers: “Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me?” The people answered, “Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee?”

Jesus answered, “I have done one work, and ye all marvel.” Moses had given them circumcision—not because it was of Moses, but of the fathers—and on the sabbath day they circumcised a man. “If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day? Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment.”

Then said some of them of Jerusalem, “Is not this he, whom they seek to kill? But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ? Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is.”

Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, “Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not. But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me.” Then they sought to take him, but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come. And many of the people believed on him. “When Christ cometh,” they said, “will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done?”

The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him. Then said Jesus, “Yet a little while am I with you, and then I go unto him that sent me. Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come.” Then said the Jews among themselves, “Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles? What manner of saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come?”
