It was the ninth year of Zedekiah his reign. In the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against Jerusalem with all his host. He pitched against it. He built forts against it round about.

The forts were earthworks raised against the walls. They were heaped up day by day. The siege had begun.

The city was besieged unto the eleventh year of Zedekiah. That was two years and more. The people of the city remained within the walls. They could not go out. None of the country round about could come in unto them.

In the time of the siege the famine came. There was no bread for the people of the land. The siege did not break. The famine did not break.

In the ninth day of the fourth month the wall of the city was broken up. The Chaldees made an opening. The men of war saw the opening and knew the city was lost.

They fled by night by the way of the gate between two walls, which is by the king's garden. The king fled with them. They went the way toward the plain. They went toward the Jordan.

The Chaldees were against the city round about. They saw the men of war flee. The army of the Chaldees pursued after the king.

They overtook him in the plains of Jericho. All his army was scattered from him. He was alone with the few that remained. They were taken.

They brought the king up to the king of Babylon to Riblah. Riblah was far north, in the land of Hamath. There the king of Babylon held his court for the war.

And they gave judgment upon him. They slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes. That was the last thing his eyes saw. They put out the eyes of Zedekiah after that. They bound him with fetters of brass. They carried him to Babylon.

In the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, which is the nineteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, came Nebuzaradan, captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon, unto Jerusalem.

He burnt the house of the LORD. The house had stood since Solomon. It had been burnt now.

He burnt the king's house. He burnt all the houses of Jerusalem. Every great man's house burnt he with fire. The smoke went up over the hills.

All the army of the Chaldees that were with the captain of the guard brake down the walls of Jerusalem round about. The walls had been there a long while. Solomon had begun them. They were broken now.

The captain of the guard carried away the rest of the people that were left in the city. The fugitives that fell away to the king of Babylon, with the remnant of the multitude, did he carry away. But he left of the poor of the land to be vinedressers and husbandmen.

The land was emptied of its people. The vinedressers were left. The husbandmen were left. The houses were ash and the walls were broken. The temple was ash. The gate between the two walls was open and no one went out of it. The road to Babylon was full of those who had been carried away. The city was the city no longer.
