Samuel was old. He had judged Israel from his youth. He had now anointed Saul to be their king. The people had desired a king. They had been given one. Samuel was stepping aside.

He stood before the people. He called them to witness against him.

Behold, here I am, said he. Witness against me before the LORD, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Or whose ass have I taken? Whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed?

They said: thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us. Neither hast thou taken ought of any man's hand.

He said unto them: the LORD is witness against you this day, that ye have not found ought in my hand.

They answered: he is witness.

Then he sat them down. He rehearsed unto them the long story of the LORD. He told them of Jacob going down into Egypt. He told them of Moses and Aaron. He told them of the LORD bringing them forth and setting them in this place. He told them how they had forgotten the LORD again and again. The LORD had sold them into the hand of their enemies. They had cried unto the LORD. He had sent them deliverers. They had been delivered. They had forgotten again.

Now they had asked them a king. The LORD had given them one. Behold, said Samuel, the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired. He turned them toward Saul where he stood.

If ye will fear the LORD and serve him and obey his voice, said Samuel, then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue following the LORD your God. But if ye will not obey the voice of the LORD, then shall the hand of the LORD be against you, as it was against your fathers.

Then Samuel called unto the LORD. The LORD sent thunder and rain that day. It was the wheat harvest. There had been no rain in those weeks. All the people greatly feared the LORD and Samuel.

They said unto Samuel: pray for thy servants unto the LORD thy God, that we die not. For we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.

Samuel said unto the people: fear ye not. Ye have done all this wickedness. Yet turn not aside from following the LORD. Serve the LORD with all your heart. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the LORD in ceasing to pray for you. But I will teach you the good and the right way.

The rain came down. The wheat lay in the fields where it had been left. The people stood looking at Samuel where they had been standing. Saul stood with them. The thunder of the LORD was yet going off in the hills around them.
