A certain Pharisee named Simon desired Jesus to eat with him. The table was set. The lamps were lit. Guests reclined upon cushions about the low table, and the talk was careful and measured — the manner of discourse that passeth when a man of religion studieth his guest more than he welcometh him.

Then a woman came in from the street.

She was known in the city as a sinner. No man spake her name. She had not been bidden. She came bearing a small alabaster box of ointment, and she made her way through the room until she stood behind Jesus, near his feet.

She was weeping. The tears fell upon his feet — not a few, but enough to wet the dusty skin. She kneeled and began to wipe his feet with her hair. She kissed them. She opened the box and poured the ointment upon them. The fragrance filled the room.

No man spake. Simon watched closely.

He thought within himself, "This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she is a sinner."

Jesus turned unto him. "Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee."

"Master, say on."

"There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty. And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most?"

Simon answered, "I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most."

"Thou hast rightly judged," said Jesus.

He turned toward the woman, and spake unto Simon. "Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head. Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet. My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment."

He paused.

"Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little."

He said unto her, "Thy sins are forgiven."

They that sat at meat began to murmur. "Who is this that forgiveth sins also?"

Jesus looked upon the woman.

"Thy faith hath saved thee," he said. "Go in peace."
