After the Lord had given victory over Sisera and the army of Jabin, Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang a song on that day. They lifted up their voices in the hill country, and the people of Israel sang with them.

They sang, "Because the leaders took the lead in Israel, because the people offered themselves willingly, be blessed, O Lord. Hear, you kings. Give ear, you princes. I, even I, will sing to the Lord. I will sing praise to the Lord, the God of Israel."

Then they sang, "Lord, when you went out from Seir, when you marched out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled. The sky also dropped, and the clouds dropped water. The mountains quaked at the presence of the Lord, even Sinai at the presence of the Lord, the God of Israel."

Deborah sang, "In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied. The travelers walked through byways. The rulers ceased in Israel. They ceased until I, Deborah, arose. I arose a mother in Israel."

She sang, "Awake, awake, Deborah. Awake, awake, utter a song. Arise, Barak, and lead away your captives, you son of Abinoam."

Then Deborah sang of the battle at the river Kishon. She said, "The kings came and fought. The kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. From the sky the stars fought. From their courses, they fought against Sisera."

She sang, "The river Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. My soul, march on with strength."

She sang, "Blessed above women shall Jael be, the wife of Heber the Kenite. He asked for water. She gave him milk. She brought him butter in a lordly dish. She put her hand to the tent peg, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer. With the hammer she struck Sisera, and at her feet he sank, he fell, he lay still."

Then Deborah lifted her voice and concluded, "So let all your enemies perish, O Lord. But let those who love him be like the sun when it rises in its strength."

The song went out across the hill country, and the people of Israel sang it many days. The land had rest forty years.
