After the Lord had given victory over Sisera and the army of Jabin, then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam on that day. They lifted up their voices in the hill country, and the people of Israel sang with them.

They sang, "Praise ye the Lord for the avenging of Israel, when the people willingly offered themselves, be thou blessed, O Lord. Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes. I, even I, will sing unto the Lord. I will sing praise unto the Lord, the God of Israel."

Then they sang, "Lord, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou marchedst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled. The heavens also dropped, and the clouds dropped water. The mountains quaked at the presence of the Lord, even Sinai at the presence of the Lord, the God of Israel."

Deborah sang, "In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied. The travellers walked through byways. The inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel."

She sang, "Awake, awake, Deborah; awake, awake, utter a song. Arise, Barak, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam."

Then Deborah sang of the battle at the river Kishon. She said, "The kings came and fought. The kings of Canaan fought in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera."

She sang, "The river of Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength."

She sang, "Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite be. He asked water, and she gave him milk. She brought forth butter in a lordly dish. She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer. With the hammer she smote Sisera, and at her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down."

Then Deborah lifted her voice and concluded, "So let all thine enemies perish, O Lord. But let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might."

The song went out across the hill country, and the people of Israel sang it many days. And the land had rest forty years.
