When Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son. I am old, he said; I know not the day of my death. Take thy weapons, go out to the field, and take me some venison. Make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.

So Esau went out to the field.

But Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to his son, and as soon as Esau was gone, she went to Jacob. Behold, she said, I heard thy father bid thy brother bring him venison, that he may eat, and bless him before the Lord before his death. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice. Fetch me two good kids of the goats, and I will make savoury meat for thy father, such as he loveth, and thou shalt bring it to him — and he shall bless thee before his death.

But Esau my brother is a hairy man, said Jacob, and I am a smooth man. My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver, and bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing.

Upon me be thy curse, my son, said his mother. Only obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

So Jacob fetched them, and Rebekah made the savoury meat. She clothed Jacob in the goodly raiment of Esau, which was with her in the house. She put the skins of the kids upon his hands and the smooth of his neck, and gave the meat and the bread into his hand.

My father? he said.

Here am I, said Isaac. Who art thou, my son?

I am Esau thy firstborn. I have done as thou badest me. Arise, and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me.

How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son?

Because the Lord thy God brought it to me.

Come near, said Isaac, that I may feel thee, whether thou be my very son Esau or not. Jacob went near, and Isaac felt him. The voice is Jacob's voice, he said, but the hands are the hands of Esau. He discerned him not, for his hands were hairy, as Esau's hands. Art thou my very son Esau?

I am.

So Isaac did eat, and drank the wine his son brought him. Come near now, he said, and kiss me, my son. And Jacob came near, and kissed him. And when Isaac smelled the smell of Esau's raiment, he blessed him. See, said he, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed. He gave him the dew of heaven, the fatness of the earth, plenty of corn and wine, and lordship over his brethren. Cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.

Jacob was yet scarce gone out when Esau came in from his hunting, with savoury meat of his own, and brought it unto his father. Let my father arise, he said, and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me.

Who art thou? said Isaac.

I am thy son, thy firstborn, Esau.

And Isaac trembled very exceedingly. Who then is he that hath taken venison, and brought it me? I have eaten of all before thou camest, and have blessed him — yea, and he shall be blessed.

When Esau heard it, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry. Bless me, even me also, O my father!

Thy brother came with subtilty, said Isaac, and hath taken away thy blessing.

Is not he rightly named Jacob? He hath supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright, and now he hath taken away my blessing. Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me?

But Isaac had made Jacob his lord, given him his brethren for servants, and sustained him with corn and wine. What then shall I do unto thee, my son? he said.

Hast thou but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

Then Isaac answered him at last. His dwelling should be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven from above. By his sword should he live, and his brother should he serve — until the day he should have the dominion, and break the yoke from off his neck.

So Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing. The days of mourning for my father are at hand, he said in his heart; then will I slay my brother Jacob.

These words were told to Rebekah, and she sent for Jacob. Thy brother Esau doth comfort himself, purposing to kill thee. Now, my son, obey my voice: flee thou to Laban my brother in Haran, and tarry with him until thy brother's fury turn away, and he forget that which thou hast done. I will send and fetch thee. Why should I be deprived also of you both in one day?

And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob take a wife of the daughters of the land, what good shall my life do me?
