Isaac was old now, and his eyes had grown so dim that he could not see. One day he called for Esau, his elder son. "My son?"

"Here I am," Esau answered.

"See now, I am old," Isaac said. "I do not know the day of my death. So take your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field, and hunt venison for me. Make me the savory food I love, and bring it to me to eat — so that my soul may bless you before I die."

So Esau took his bow and went out to the field to hunt.

But Rebekah had been listening when Isaac spoke to his son, and as soon as Esau was gone, she went to Jacob. "Listen. I heard your father tell your brother, 'Bring me venison and make me savory food, that I may eat, and bless you before Yahweh before my death.' Now, my son, obey my voice, and do what I tell you. Go to the flock and bring me two good young goats, and I will make them into savory food for your father, the way he loves it. Then you will take it in to him, and he will eat — and he will bless you before he dies."

"But Esau my brother is a hairy man," Jacob said, "and my skin is smooth. What if my father touches me? He will know me for a deceiver, and I will bring a curse on myself, not a blessing."

"Let your curse be on me, my son," his mother said. "Only obey my voice, and go get them for me."

So he went, and got them, and brought them to his mother, and she made the savory food his father loved. Then Rebekah took the good clothes of Esau, her elder son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob, her younger son. She covered his hands with the skins of the young goats, and the smooth of his neck as well. And she placed the food and the bread she had made into her son's hands.

He came to his father and said, "My father?"

"Here I am," said Isaac. "Who are you, my son?"

"I am Esau, your firstborn. I have done as you told me. Please arise, sit and eat of my venison, so that your soul may bless me."

"How is it that you found it so quickly, my son?"

"Because Yahweh your God gave me success."

"Come near," Isaac said, "that I may feel you, my son — whether you are really my son Esau, or not." So Jacob went near to his father. Isaac felt him, and said, "The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau." He did not recognize him, because his hands were hairy like his brother's hands. And he asked once more, "Are you really my son Esau?"

"I am," said Jacob.

"Then bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless you." So Jacob brought it near, and his father ate, and Jacob brought him wine, and he drank. Then Isaac said, "Come near now, and kiss me, my son." Jacob came near and kissed him. And when Isaac smelled the smell of the clothing he wore — Esau's clothing — he blessed him.

"See, the smell of my son is like the smell of a field that Yahweh has blessed. God give you of the dew of the sky, and of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of grain and new wine. Let peoples serve you, and nations bow down to you. Be lord over your brothers, and let your mother's sons bow down to you. Cursed be everyone who curses you, and blessed be everyone who blesses you."

Jacob had scarcely gone out from his father's presence when Esau came in from his hunting. He too had made savory food, and he brought it to his father. "Let my father arise," he said, "and eat of his son's venison, that your soul may bless me."

"Who are you?" Isaac said.

"I am your son — your firstborn — Esau."

Then Isaac trembled violently. "Who was it, then, who took venison and brought it to me? I ate all of it before you came, and I blessed him. Yes — and he will be blessed."

When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried out with an exceedingly great and bitter cry. "Bless me — me also, my father!"

"Your brother came with deceit," Isaac said, "and he has taken away your blessing."

"Isn't he rightly named Jacob? For he has supplanted me these two times. He took away my birthright — and look, now he has taken away my blessing." Then he said, "Have you not reserved a blessing for me?"

"I have made him your lord," Isaac answered. "I have given him all his brothers for servants. I have sustained him with grain and new wine. What then can I do for you, my son?"

"Do you have only one blessing, my father? Bless me — me also, my father." And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

Then Isaac his father answered him. "Your dwelling will be of the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of the sky from above. You will live by your sword, and you will serve your brother. But when you break loose, you will shake his yoke from off your neck."

So Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing his father had given him. And Esau said in his heart, "The days of mourning for my father are near. Then I will kill my brother Jacob."

But Esau's words were reported to Rebekah, and she sent and called for Jacob, her younger son. "Listen — your brother Esau consoles himself concerning you by planning to kill you. Now, my son, obey my voice. Get up and flee to my brother Laban, in Haran. Stay with him a few days, until your brother's fury turns — until his anger turns away from you, and he forgets what you have done to him. Then I will send, and bring you back from there. Why should I be bereaved of you both in one day?"

And to Isaac, Rebekah said, "I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob takes a wife from the daughters of Heth, from the daughters of this land, what good will my life be to me?"
