Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see. He called Esau his eldest son, and bade him hunt venison and make him the savoury meat he loved. Bring it to me, that I may eat, he said, that my soul may bless thee before I die.

So Esau went out to the field. But Rebekah had heard, and she went quickly to Jacob. Obey my voice, my son, she said. Fetch me two good kids of the goats, and I will make the savoury meat thy father loveth. Thou shalt carry it in — and he shall bless thee before his death.

But Esau is a hairy man, said Jacob, and I am a smooth man. My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver, and bring a curse upon me.

Upon me be thy curse, my son, said his mother. Only obey my voice.

So Rebekah made the meat, and clothed Jacob in the goodly raiment of Esau, and put the skins of the kids upon his hands and the smooth of his neck. And Jacob carried the meal in to his father. I am Esau thy firstborn, he said.

Isaac called him near, and felt his hands — hairy, as Esau's hands. The voice is Jacob's voice, he said, but the hands are the hands of Esau. Art thou my very son Esau?

I am, said Jacob.

So Isaac did eat, and kissed him, and smelled the smell of Esau's raiment upon him — and he blessed him. He gave him the dew of heaven and the fatness of the earth, plenty of corn and wine, and lordship over his brethren. Cursed be every one that curseth thee, he said, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.

Jacob was scarce gone out when Esau came in from his hunting, with meat of his own. Let my father arise and eat, he said, that thy soul may bless me.

Who art thou? said Isaac.

I am thy son, thy firstborn, Esau.

And Isaac trembled very exceedingly. Who then hath taken venison, and brought it me? I have eaten of all before thou camest, and have blessed him — yea, and he shall be blessed.

Esau cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry. Bless me, even me also, O my father! Hast thou but one blessing? And he lifted up his voice, and wept. What remained for Esau was this: by his sword should he live, and his brother should he serve, until the day he should break the yoke from off his neck.

So Esau hated Jacob, and purposed in his heart to slay him when the days of mourning for his father came. And when his words were told to Rebekah, she sent for Jacob, and bade him flee to Laban her brother in Haran, till his brother's anger turned away. Why should I be deprived also of you both in one day?
