Isaac was old, and his eyes had grown too dim to see. He called for Esau his elder son and said, "My son, I am old. I do not know the day of my death. Take your bow and your quiver, go out to the field, and hunt venison for me. Make me the savory food I love and bring it to me to eat, so that my soul may bless you before I die."

So Esau went out to the field.

But Rebekah had been listening, and as soon as he was gone she went to Jacob. "I heard your father tell your brother to bring him venison, so that he may eat and bless him before Yahweh before his death. Now, my son, obey my voice. Bring me two good young goats from the flock, and I will make the savory food your father loves. You will carry it to him — and he will bless you before he dies."

"But Esau is a hairy man," Jacob said, "and my skin is smooth. What if my father touches me? He will know me for a deceiver, and I will bring a curse on myself, not a blessing."

"Let your curse be on me, my son. Only obey my voice, and go get them."

So Jacob brought the goats, and Rebekah made the food. She dressed Jacob in Esau's good clothes, which were with her in the house. She covered his hands and the smooth of his neck with the goatskins, and she put the food and the bread into his hands.

"My father?" he said.

"Here I am. Who are you, my son?"

"I am Esau, your firstborn. I have done as you told me. Please sit up and eat of my venison, so that your soul may bless me."

"How did you find it so quickly, my son?"

"Because Yahweh your God gave me success."

Isaac told him to come near, so that he could feel whether this was really his son Esau. He felt his hands — hairy, like his brother's — and said, "The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau." He did not recognize him. "Are you really my son Esau?"

"I am."

So Isaac ate, and drank the wine his son brought him, and said, "Come near now, and kiss me, my son." And when he smelled the smell of Esau's clothes, he blessed him. "See, the smell of my son is like the smell of a field that Yahweh has blessed. God give you of the dew of the sky and the fatness of the earth, plenty of grain and new wine. Let peoples serve you and nations bow down to you. Be lord over your brothers. Cursed be everyone who curses you, and blessed be everyone who blesses you."

Jacob had scarcely left his father's presence when Esau came in from his hunting. He too had made savory food, and he carried it in to his father. "Let my father arise and eat of his son's venison, that your soul may bless me."

"Who are you?"

"I am your son — your firstborn — Esau."

Then Isaac trembled violently. "Who was it, then, who brought me venison? I ate it all before you came, and I blessed him. Yes — and he will be blessed."

When Esau heard that, he cried out with an exceedingly great and bitter cry. "Bless me — me also, my father!"

"Your brother came with deceit, and he has taken away your blessing."

"Isn't he rightly named Jacob? Twice now he has supplanted me. He took my birthright — and look, now he has taken my blessing. Have you not reserved a blessing for me?"

"I have made him your lord," Isaac answered. "I have given him all his brothers for servants. I have sustained him with grain and new wine. What then can I do for you, my son?"

"Do you have only one blessing, my father? Bless me — me also!" And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

Isaac answered him at last. His dwelling would be of the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of the sky from above. He would live by his sword, and he would serve his brother — and when he broke loose, he would shake the yoke from off his neck.

So Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing, and said in his heart, "The days of mourning for my father are near. Then I will kill my brother Jacob."

When his words reached Rebekah, she sent for Jacob. "Your brother consoles himself with the thought of killing you. Obey my voice: flee to my brother Laban in Haran, and stay with him until your brother's fury turns away and he forgets what you have done. Then I will send for you and bring you back. Why should I be bereaved of you both in one day?"

And to Isaac she said, "I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob takes a wife from the daughters of this land, what good will my life be to me?"
