Isaac was old now, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see. One day he called for Esau, his eldest son. My son?

Behold, here am I, Esau answered.

Behold now, I am old, said Isaac. I know not the day of my death. Take therefore thy weapons, I pray thee, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and hunt me some venison. Make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it me to eat, that my soul may bless thee before I die.

So Esau took his bow and went out to the field to hunt.

But Rebekah had heard Isaac speak to his son, and as soon as Esau was gone, she went to Jacob. Behold, she said, I heard thy father speak unto thy brother, bidding him bring venison and make him savoury meat, that he might eat, and bless him before the Lord before his death. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice in that which I command thee. Go to the flock, she said, and fetch me two good kids of the goats, and of them I will make savoury meat for thy father, such as he loveth. Thou shalt carry it to thy father, that he may eat — and that he may bless thee before he dieth.

But behold, said Jacob, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man. My father peradventure will feel me; I shall seem to him as a deceiver, and bring upon me a curse, and not a blessing.

Upon me be thy curse, my son, said his mother. Only obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

So he went, and fetched them, and brought them to his mother, and she made the savoury meat his father loved. Then Rebekah took the goodly raiment of Esau, her eldest son, which was with her in the house, and clothed Jacob her younger son in it. She covered his hands with the skins of the kids, and the smooth of his neck also. Then she set the savoury meat and the bread she had prepared into her son's hands.

He came unto his father, and said, My father?

Here am I, said Isaac. Who art thou, my son?

I am Esau thy firstborn. I have done according as thou badest me. Arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me.

How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son?

Because the Lord thy God brought it to me.

Come near, I pray thee, said Isaac, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not. So Jacob went near, and his father felt him. The voice is Jacob's voice, he said, but the hands are the hands of Esau. And he discerned him not, for his hands were hairy, as the hands of Esau his brother. And he asked once more, Art thou my very son Esau?

I am, said Jacob.

Then bring it near to me, said his father, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless thee. So Jacob brought it near, and Isaac did eat; and he brought him wine also, and he drank. Then Isaac said, Come near now, and kiss me, my son. And Jacob came near, and kissed him. And when Isaac smelled the smell of the raiment he wore — Esau's raiment — he blessed him.

See, he said, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed. Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven, he said, and of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine. Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee. Be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow down before thee. Cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be every one that blesseth thee.

Now Jacob was yet scarce gone out from his father's presence when Esau his brother came in from his hunting. He also had made savoury meat, and carried it in unto his father. Let my father arise, he said, and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me.

Who art thou? said Isaac.

I am thy son, thy firstborn, Esau.

And Isaac trembled very exceedingly. Who then, he said — where is he that took venison, and brought it me? I have eaten of all before thou camest, and I have blessed him — yea, and blessed he shall be.

When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry. Bless me, even me also, O my father!

Thy brother came with subtilty, said Isaac, and hath taken away thy blessing.

Is not he rightly named Jacob? For he hath supplanted me these two times. He took away my birthright; and, behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. Then he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me?

Behold, I have made him thy lord, Isaac answered; his brethren have I given him for servants, and with corn and wine have I sustained him. What then shall I do now unto thee, my son?

Hast thou but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

Then Isaac his father answered him. Behold, thy dwelling shall be of the fatness of the earth, he said, and of the dew of heaven from above. By thy sword shalt thou live, and thy brother shalt thou serve. Yet it shall come to pass, when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.

So Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father had blessed him. And Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.

But these words of Esau were carried to Rebekah, and she sent and called for Jacob her younger son. Behold, she said, thy brother Esau doth comfort himself concerning thee, purposing to kill thee. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice. Arise, and flee to my brother Laban, in Haran. Tarry with him a few days, she said, until thy brother's fury turn away — until his anger turn from thee, and he forget what thou hast done to him. Then will I send, and fetch thee from thence. For why should I be deprived of you both in one day?

And to Isaac, Rebekah said, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth. If Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth, of such as these, what good shall my life do me?
