Joseph dwelt all his days in Egypt.

He had been brought down unto that land as a young man in chains, in the shame of his brethren. He had risen in the house of Pharaoh. He had laid up the grain that fed the world through the years of famine. He had brought his father Jacob and the whole household of Israel down into the land of Goshen, and he had buried his father in the cave of Machpelah, back in the land of Canaan, when his father had asked of him.

After that he had dwelt on in Egypt, he and his brethren, in the house that Pharaoh had given them.

Joseph lived an hundred and ten years.

He saw Ephraim's children of the third generation. The children of Machir, the son of Manasseh, were brought up upon Joseph's knees. He held them when they were small. He could feel their weight upon his lap, and the years of his life in the chair wherein he sat.

Then his strength began to fail him.

He called his brethren unto him in his house.

He said unto them, "I die."

He said, "But God will surely visit you. He will bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob."

He took an oath of the children of Israel before he died.

He said, "God will surely visit you. When that day cometh, ye shall carry up my bones from hence."

So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old.

They embalmed him in the manner of the Egyptians. They put him in a coffin. They set the coffin in an house in Egypt, in the land that was not the land of the promise.

The coffin remained there.

It would remain through the years that the children of Israel grew into a great people in Goshen. It would remain through the years they were brought low into bondage under another Pharaoh. It would remain through the four hundred years of waiting, ere God visited his people by the hand of Moses.

The bones of Joseph were carried up out of Egypt in that day.

But in the day that Joseph died, the coffin stood quiet in the house in Egypt, and the promise stood quiet with him.
