The Brother Who Ran to Hug Him

After many long years away from home, Jacob was finally coming back. But his heart was heavy with worry. For somewhere up ahead, on the road home, was his brother — Esau. And Jacob was afraid to face him.

You see, long, long ago, when they were younger, Jacob had done something that hurt Esau very deeply. He had taken something that should have been his brother's. And Esau had been so upset that Jacob had run away, far from home — and the two brothers had not seen each other in years and years.

Now Jacob was coming home at last, and he would have to pass right through his brother's land. Would Esau still be angry, after all this time? Jacob simply did not know. And the not-knowing made him afraid.

So Jacob did everything he could think of to make peace. He gathered together a wonderful gift for his brother — flocks of sheep, and herds of goats, and camels, and cattle, a great many of them. And he sent them on ahead, in groups, one after another, so that his brother would know how very sorry he was, and how much he longed to make things right between them.

Then, that night, all alone, Jacob prayed to God. "O God," he prayed, "I am afraid. Please watch over me, and over my family. Please help me." And God was there with him in the dark, just as God had promised, long ago.

When morning came, Jacob looked up into the distance — and his heart gave a great thump. For there was Esau, coming toward him — and with him were four hundred men! Jacob could not tell if his brother was coming in peace, or in anger. So he walked out ahead of his family, and as he came near to Esau, he bowed down low to the ground, to show his brother honor and love.

And then — the moment Jacob had feared for so long — finally came. But it did not happen at all the way he expected.

For Esau did not raise his hand in anger. Esau began to run. He ran — straight toward his brother. And he threw both his arms around Jacob's neck, and he hugged him as tight as he possibly could, and he kissed him. And the two brothers stood there together and wept — but they were happy tears, the kind that come when something broken is finally, wonderfully mended.

All the long years of being apart, all the old hurt — in that one running hug, it melted clean away. "And who are all these with you?" Esau asked, smiling, looking at Jacob's wife and all his children. So Jacob got to introduce his whole family to the brother he had feared — the brother who had forgiven him completely.

So if you have ever had a falling-out with someone you love, little one, do not lose hope. Hurt does not have to last forever. Sorry can be said, and forgiveness can be given. And sometimes, the very person you are most afraid to face will turn out to be the one who comes running, with arms open wide, to hold you close.
