Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field the Lord God had made, and it came unto the woman with a question. Yea, said it, hath God indeed said that ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?

We may eat of the trees of the garden, the woman answered; but of the tree in the midst God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.

Ye shall not surely die, said the serpent. For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

And the woman looked upon the tree, and saw that it was good for food, and pleasant to the eyes, and to be desired to make one wise. So she took of the fruit, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband beside her, and he did eat.

And the eyes of them both were opened, even as the serpent had said; and the first thing they knew was that they were naked. So they sewed fig leaves together to cover themselves.

And when they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, they hid among the trees. Where art thou? God called. And the man said, I heard thy voice, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee? Then the man pointed to the woman, and the woman to the serpent. The serpent beguiled me, said she, and I did eat.

So the Lord God spake to each in turn. To the serpent, a curse: upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all thy days; and enmity should stand between it and the woman, and between its seed and hers, and her seed should bruise its head, though it bruise his heel. To the woman, sorrow in bringing forth children. And to the man, a ground cursed for his sake, thorns and sweat all his days, till he return unto the dust whence he was taken.

And the man called his wife's name Eve, the mother of all living. And the Lord God made coats of skins for them, and clothed them.

Then he sent them forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground. And at the east of the garden he set the cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.
