Of all the wild creatures Yahweh God had made, the serpent was the most cunning. One day it came to the woman with a question that turned God's kindness into something to doubt. "Did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden?"

"We may eat from the trees of the garden," the woman answered. "It is only the tree in the middle that is forbidden. God said we must not eat from it, or even touch it, or we will die."

"You will not die," the serpent said. "God knows that on the day you eat it your eyes will be opened, and you will become like him, knowing good and evil."

The woman looked at the tree again, and now she saw it differently. It was good for food. It was a delight to the eyes. And more than that, it seemed able to make her wise. So she took some of its fruit and ate, and gave some to her husband, who was there beside her, and he ate too.

Then their eyes were opened, just as the serpent had promised — but the first thing they saw was themselves. They knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings to hide.

In the cool of the day they heard the voice of Yahweh God walking in the garden, and they hid themselves among the trees. "Where are you?" God called to the man. "I heard your voice in the garden," he said, "and I was afraid, because I was naked, so I hid myself."

"Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree I commanded you not to eat from?" And here the blame began to move from hand to hand. "The woman you gave to be with me," the man said, "she gave me the fruit, and I ate." God turned to the woman. "What have you done?" And she said, "The serpent deceived me, and I ate."

So Yahweh God answered each in turn. To the serpent he said, "Because you have done this, you are cursed above every animal. On your belly you will go, and dust you will eat, all your days. And I will put hostility between you and the woman, and between your children and hers. He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel."

To the woman he said that her pain in bringing forth children would be multiplied, and that her longing would be for her husband.

To the man he said, "Because you listened to your wife and ate from the tree I forbade you, the ground itself is cursed for your sake. You will eat from it in hard labor all your days. It will give you thorns and thistles. By the sweat of your face you will eat your bread, until you return to the ground you were taken from. For you are dust, and to dust you will return."

Then the man named his wife Eve, because she would be the mother of all the living. And before anything else, Yahweh God made garments of skin for the man and his wife, and clothed them with his own hands.

"The man has become like one of us," God said, "knowing good and evil. He must not now reach out and take also from the tree of life, and eat, and live forever." So Yahweh God sent him out of the garden of Eden, to work the ground from which he had been taken.

He drove the man out. And at the east of the garden he set cherubim, and a flaming sword flashing back and forth, to guard the way to the tree of life.
