Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field the Lord God had made. And it came unto the woman with a question that made God's goodness seem a thing to doubt. Yea, said it, hath God indeed said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?

We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, the woman answered; but of the tree in the midst of the garden God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.

Ye shall not surely die, said the serpent. For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

And the woman looked again upon the tree, and now she saw it otherwise. It was good for food, and pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise. So she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband who was with her, and he did eat.

And the eyes of them both were opened, even as the serpent had promised; but the first thing they beheld was themselves. They knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons to hide.

And in the cool of the day they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden, and they hid themselves among the trees. Where art thou? God called unto the man. And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat? And here the blame passed from hand to hand. The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, said the man, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. Then the Lord turned to the woman: What is this that thou hast done? And she said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

So the Lord God answered each in turn. To the serpent he said, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle: upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all thy days. And I will put enmity, said he, between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and hers; her seed shall bruise thy head, though thou bruise his heel.

Unto the woman he said that her sorrow should be multiplied, and in sorrow she should bring forth children, and her desire should be to her husband.

And unto the man he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto thy wife, and eaten of the tree I forbade thee, the ground is cursed for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all thy days, and thorns and thistles shall it bring forth unto thee. In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat thy bread, until thou return unto the ground from whence thou wast taken. For dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return.

And the man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord God made coats of skins for the man and for his wife, and clothed them with his own hands.

Behold, said the Lord God, the man is become as one of us in this, that he knoweth good and evil. He must not now stretch forth his hand to the tree of life also, and eat thereof, and live for ever. And so the Lord God sent the man away out of the garden of Eden, to till the ground he had been taken from.

He drove the man out. And at the east of the garden of Eden he placed the cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.
