Of all the creatures Yahweh had made, the serpent was the most cunning, and it came to the woman with a question. "Did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden?"

"We may eat from the trees," she answered. "Only the tree in the middle of the garden is forbidden. God said that if we eat from it, or even touch it, we will die."

"You will not die," the serpent said. "God knows that on the day you eat it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like him, knowing good and evil."

The woman looked again at the tree. It was good for food, and beautiful to see, and it promised to make her wise. So she took some of its fruit and ate, and gave some to her husband, who was there with her, and he ate too.

Then their eyes were opened, just as the serpent had said — and the first thing they saw was that they were naked. They sewed fig leaves together to cover themselves.

When they heard the voice of Yahweh God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, they hid among the trees. "Where are you?" God called. "I heard you," the man said, "and I was afraid, because I was naked, so I hid."

"Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree I commanded you not to eat from?" The man pointed to the woman, and the woman pointed to the serpent. "It deceived me," she said, "and I ate."

So Yahweh God spoke to each of them in turn. To the serpent, a curse: to crawl on its belly and eat dust all its days, and to live at enmity with the woman and her offspring — her child would strike its head, and it would strike his heel. To the woman, pain in bearing children. To the man, ground turned hard against him, thorns and sweat all his days, until he returned to the dust he was formed from.

The man named his wife Eve, the mother of all the living. And Yahweh God made garments of skin for them, and clothed them himself.

Then he sent them out of the garden, to work the ground from which the man was taken. And at the entrance he set cherubim, and a flaming sword flashing back and forth, to guard the way to the tree of life.
