In those days the children of Israel had again done evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years. There was a man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah. His wife was barren.

Then the angel of the Lord appeared unto the woman and said unto her, "Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not: but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son. Drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat no unclean thing. The child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb. No razor shall come on his head, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines."

The woman came and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible. I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name."

Then Manoah entreated the Lord and said, "O my Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born."

The Lord hearkened to the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came again unto the woman in the field. The woman made haste and told her husband, and Manoah went out to the man. He said unto him, "Art thou the man that spakest unto my wife?" The angel said, "I am."

Manoah said, "Now let thy words come to pass. What shall be the child's manner of life?" The angel answered, "Let her observe all that I commanded the woman."

Then Manoah said, "I pray thee, let us detain thee, that we may make ready a kid for thee." But the angel of the Lord said, "Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy bread. If thou wilt offer a burnt offering, thou must offer it unto the Lord."

Manoah said, "What is thy name, that when thy sayings come to pass we may do thee honour?" The angel said, "Wherefore askest thou thus after my name, seeing it is secret?"

So Manoah took a kid with a meat offering, and offered it upon the rock unto the Lord. As the flame went up, the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame. Manoah and his wife fell on their faces to the ground.

The angel appeared no more unto them. Then Manoah said unto his wife, "We shall surely die, because we have seen God."

But his wife said unto him, "If the Lord were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt offering at our hands, neither would he have shewed us all these things, nor told us such things as these at this time."

The woman bare a son, and called his name Samson. The child grew, and the Lord blessed him, and the Spirit of the Lord began to move him at times in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
