In those days the children of Israel had again done evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. There was a man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah. His wife was barren.

Then the angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to her, "Behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. Drink no wine or strong drink, and eat no unclean thing. The child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb. No razor shall come on his head, and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines."

The woman came and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came to me, and his face was like the face of the angel of God, very awesome. I did not ask him where he was from, and he did not tell me his name."

Then Manoah prayed to the Lord and said, "Oh, Lord, please let the man of God whom you sent come again to us, and teach us what we should do for the child to come."

The Lord heard the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came again to the woman in the field. The woman ran and told her husband, and Manoah went out to the man. He said to him, "Are you the man who spoke to my wife?" The angel said, "I am."

Manoah said, "Now let your words come to pass. What shall be the child's way of life?" The angel answered, "Let her observe all that I commanded the woman."

Then Manoah said, "Please stay with us, that we may prepare a young goat for you." But the angel of the Lord said, "Though you detain me, I will not eat your bread. If you prepare a burnt offering, you must offer it to the Lord."

Manoah said, "What is your name, that when your words come to pass we may honor you?" The angel said, "Why do you ask my name, since it is wonderful?"

So Manoah took the young goat with a meal offering, and he offered it on the rock to the Lord. As the flame went up, the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame. Manoah and his wife fell on their faces to the ground.

The angel did not appear to them again. Then Manoah said to his wife, "We shall surely die, because we have seen God."

But his wife said to him, "If the Lord meant to kill us, he would not have received a burnt offering at our hand. He would not have shown us all these things, nor told us such things at this time."

The woman bore a son and named him Samson. The child grew, and the Lord blessed him, and the Spirit of the Lord began to move him in Mahaneh Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
