The day pressed down with heat as the sun came unto its height over Samaria. Jesus, journeying from Judaea unto Galilee, must needs go through Samaria. He came unto a city called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. There, beside the ancient well, Jesus, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. The dust clave unto his sandals. His disciples were gone away to buy meat, leaving him alone in the quiet light.

It was about the sixth hour, when most would shelter themselves from the heat. And there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Her steps were careful and solitary, the empty pitcher balanced upon her hip. As she drew nigh, Jesus beheld her and saith unto her, "Give me to drink." Startled, the woman looked upon him. For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. She saith unto him, "How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria?"

Jesus answered and said unto her, "If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water." The woman's brow was furrowed. The well was deep, and he had nothing wherewith to draw. She saith unto him, "Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?"

With gentle patience, Jesus answered and said unto her, "Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." The woman's voice softened, touched with longing. "Sir," saith she, "give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw."

Jesus saith unto her, "Go, call thy husband, and come hither." The woman cast down her eyes. "I have no husband," she answered. Jesus said unto her, "Thou hast well said, I have no husband: for thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in that saidst thou truly." Amazed, the woman perceived that he knew her life, though none had told him. "Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet," she said. She spake of how her people worshipped in this mountain, while the Jews said Jerusalem was the place where men ought to worship.

Jesus saith unto her, "The hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father. God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth." The woman saith unto him, "I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things." Jesus beheld her and saith unto her, "I that speak unto thee am he."
