The day pressed down with heat as the sun reached its height over the land of Samaria. Jesus, traveling from Judea to Galilee, passed through a town called Sychar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. There, beside the ancient well dug by Jacob, Jesus paused, weary from the journey. The dust clung to His sandals. His disciples had gone into the city to buy food, leaving Him to rest alone in the quiet, shimmering light.

At that hour, when most would be sheltering from the heat, a Samaritan woman came to draw water. Her steps were careful and solitary, the empty jar balanced on her hip. As she approached, Jesus looked at her and spoke, “Give me a drink.” Startled, the woman regarded Him. It was uncommon for Jews to speak to Samaritans. She asked, “How is it that you, being a Jew, ask me for a drink, a Samaritan woman?”

Jesus replied, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, ‘Give me a drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.” The woman’s brow furrowed. The well was deep, and He had no bucket. She said, “Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From where then do you have that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock?”

With gentle patience, Jesus answered, “Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again; but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never thirst. The water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life.” The woman’s voice softened, tinged with longing. “Sir,” she said, “give me this water, so that I don’t get thirsty, neither come all the way here to draw.”

Jesus told her, “Go, call your husband, and come here.” The woman’s eyes lowered. “I have no husband,” she replied. Jesus said, “You said well, ‘I have no husband,’ for you have had five husbands, and he whom you now have is not your husband. You have spoken the truth.” Amazed, the woman realized He knew her life without being told. “Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet,” she said. She mentioned how her people worshiped on this mountain, while Jews said Jerusalem was the place to worship.

Jesus said, “The hour comes, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, will you worship the Father. God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth.” The woman said, “I know that Messiah comes, He who is called Christ. When He has come, He will declare to us all things.” Jesus looked at her and said, “I am he, the one who speaks to you.”
