A south wind blew softly, and they deemed their time had come. They weighed anchor and sailed close by the shore of Crete. But soon a tempestuous wind struck from the northeast — the wind called Euroclydon. The ship was caught. It could not bear up into the wind. They let her drive.

Running under a certain island called Clauda, they had much work to come by the boat. They used helps, undergirding the ship. They strake sail and so were driven.

The next day they lightened the ship. On the third day they cast out with their own hands the tackling of the ship.

Neither sun nor stars appeared for many days. No small tempest lay upon them. All hope that they should be saved was taken away.

Paul stood forth among them. "Sirs, I exhort you to be of good cheer. There shall be no loss of any man's life among you — but of the ship. For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am and whom I serve, saying, 'Fear not, Paul; thou must be brought before Caesar: and, lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee.' Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer: for I believe God."

On the fourteenth night, as they were driven up and down in the Adriatic, the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country. They sounded — twenty fathoms. A little further — fifteen. Fearing lest they should have fallen upon rocks, they cast four anchors out of the stern and wished for the day.

Certain of the sailors sought to flee the ship in the boat. Paul said unto the centurion, "Except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved." The soldiers cut the ropes and let the boat fall off.

While the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to take meat. He took bread, gave thanks to God in presence of them all, and brake it. They were all of good cheer. All two hundred threescore and sixteen souls did eat.

When it was day, they discovered a certain creek with a shore. They cast off the anchors, loosed the rudder bands, hoisted up the mainsail, and made toward shore.

The ship fell into a place where two seas met. The forepart stuck fast. The hinder part was broken with the violence of the waves.

The soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners. The centurion stayed them, willing to save Paul. He commanded that they which could swim should cast themselves first into the sea. The rest followed — some on boards, some on broken pieces of the ship.

All two hundred threescore and sixteen came safe to land.
