Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel were come to Shechem to make him king. And when Jeroboam heard of it — for he was yet in Egypt, whither he had fled from the presence of Solomon — they sent and called him. So Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came and spake unto Rehoboam, saying, Thy father made our yoke grievous: now therefore make thou the heavy yoke of thy father lighter, and we will serve thee.

Depart yet for three days, said he, then come again to me. And the people departed.

King Rehoboam consulted with the old men that had stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, How do ye advise that I may answer this people? And they spake unto him, saying, If thou wilt be a servant unto this people this day, and serve them, and answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy servants for ever. But he forsook the counsel of the old men, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with him, that stood before him. And they bade him answer roughly: Say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins. My father did lade you with a heavy yoke, and I will add to your yoke. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.

So when Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, the king answered them roughly, and forsook the counsel of the old men, and spake after the counsel of the young men. He hearkened not unto the people; for the cause was from the Lord, that he might perform his saying, which the Lord spake by Ahijah unto Jeroboam.

And when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them, the people answered him, What portion have we in David? Neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: to your tents, O Israel: now see to thine own house, David. So Israel departed unto their tents; and over them that dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned still. Then he sent Adoram, who was over the tribute; and all Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. And the king made speed to get up to his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem. So Israel rebelled against the house of David, and made Jeroboam king; none followed the house of David but the tribe of Judah only.

Rehoboam came to Jerusalem and gathered the men of Judah and Benjamin to fight against Israel, to bring the kingdom again to himself. But the word of God came unto Shemaiah, saying, Speak unto Rehoboam and unto all the house of Judah and Benjamin: Thus saith the Lord, Ye shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren the children of Israel: return every man to his house; for this thing is from me. So they hearkened, and returned to depart, according to the word of the Lord.

But Jeroboam was afraid. If this people go up to do sacrifice in the house of the Lord at Jerusalem, he thought, their heart will turn again unto Rehoboam. Whereupon he made two calves of gold, and said unto the people, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem: behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. And he set the one in Bethel, and the other in Dan; and the people went to worship before the one, even unto Dan. And this thing became a sin.
