Samuel was dead. The prophet had been buried at Ramah, the city of his birth, with all Israel lamenting him; and Saul had put away from the land the mediums and the wizards, even as the law required. Now the Philistines had come up and gathered themselves at Shunem, and Saul had gathered Israel to Gilboa across the valley. He had stood on the hill and looked across at the host of the Philistines. And what he saw, he saw alone.

When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.

When Saul inquired of Yahweh, Yahweh didn't answer him by dreams, by Urim, or by prophets.

Then Saul said to his servants, "Seek for me a woman who has a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her."

His servants said to him, "Behold, there is a woman who has a familiar spirit at Endor."

Saul disguised himself and put on other clothing, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. Then he said, "Please consult for me by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whomever I shall name to you."

The woman said to him, "Behold, you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. Why then do you lay a snare for my life, to cause me to die?"

Saul swore to her by Yahweh, saying, "As Yahweh lives, no punishment will happen to you for this thing."

Then the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up to you?"

He said, "Bring Samuel up for me."

When the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, "Why have you deceived me? For you are Saul!"

The king said to her, "Don't be afraid! What do you see?"

The woman said to Saul, "I see a god coming up out of the earth."

He said to her, "What does he look like?"

She said, "An old man comes up. He is covered with a robe." Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and showed respect.

Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disturbed me, to bring me up?"

Saul answered, "I am very distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God has departed from me, and answers me no more, by prophets, or by dreams. Therefore I have called you, that you may make known to me what I shall do."

And the king of Israel stood in the woman's house at Endor under the night. The old prophet stood before him in the robe and the silence of the room; the lamp burned low between them; and the question that the disguised king had carried in his trembling heart up the road from Gilboa stood now between the king and the prophet at Endor.
