Samuel was dead. The prophet had been buried at Ramah, the city of his birth, with all Israel lamenting him; and Saul had put away out of the land them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, even as the law required. Now the Philistines had come up and gathered themselves together at Shunem, and Saul had gathered all Israel together at Gilboa across the valley. He had stood upon the hill and beheld the host of the Philistines. And what he saw, he saw alone.

And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.

And when Saul enquired of the Lord, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.

Then said Saul unto his servants, "Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and enquire of her."

And his servants said unto him, "Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor."

And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, "I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto thee."

And the woman said unto him, "Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. Wherefore then layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?"

And Saul sware to her by the Lord, saying, "As the Lord liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing."

Then said the woman, "Whom shall I bring up unto thee?"

And he said, "Bring me up Samuel."

And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake to Saul, saying, "Why hast thou deceived me? For thou art Saul!"

And the king said unto her, "Be not afraid. What sawest thou?"

And the woman said unto Saul, "I saw gods ascending out of the earth."

And he said unto her, "What form is he of?"

And she said, "An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle." And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.

And Samuel said to Saul, "Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up?"

And Saul answered, "I am sore distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams. Therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do."

And the king of Israel stood in the woman's house at Endor under the night. The old prophet stood before him in the mantle and the silence of the room; the lamp burned low between them; and the question that the disguised king had carried in his trembling heart up the road from Gilboa stood now between the king and the prophet at Endor.
