And King Ahab sent word throughout all Israel, and gathered the people together, and the prophets of Baal, unto Mount Carmel.

And Elijah stood before them all. "How long halt ye between two opinions?" he saith. "If the Lord be God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him."

And the people answered him not a word.

And Elijah spake again. "I, even I only, remain a prophet of the Lord. But Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men. Let two bullocks be given us. And let them choose one bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it upon wood, but put no fire under it. And I will dress the other bullock, and lay it upon wood, and put no fire under it. Then call ye upon the name of your god, and I will call upon the name of the Lord. And the god that answereth by fire, let him be God."

And all the people answered and said, "It is well spoken."

And the prophets of Baal chose their bullock and dressed it. And from morning even until noon they called upon the name of Baal, saying, "O Baal, hear us!" But there was no voice, nor any that answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made.

And it came to pass at noon that Elijah mocked them, and said, "Cry aloud, for he is a god. Either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth and must be awaked."

And they cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with knives and with lancets, till the blood gushed out upon them. And when midday was past, they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice. And there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded.

And Elijah said unto all the people, "Come near unto me." And they came near. And he repaired the altar of the Lord that was broken down. And he took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob. And with the stones he built an altar in the name of the Lord. And he made a trench about the altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed. And he put the wood in order, and cut the bullock in pieces, and laid him upon the wood.

And he said, "Fill four barrels with water, and pour it upon the burnt sacrifice, and upon the wood." And they did so. And he said, "Do it the second time." And they did it the second time. And he said, "Do it the third time." And they did it the third time. And the water ran round about the altar; and he filled the trench also with water.

And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near, and said, "Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord, hear me."

Then the fire of the Lord fell, and consumed the burnt sacrifice, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.

And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces, and they said, "The Lord, he is the God. The Lord, he is the God."
