Jesus and his disciples came unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, who had his dwelling among the tombs; and no man could bind him, no, not with chains.

He had often been bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces: neither could any man tame him. And always, night and day, he was in the mountains, and in the tombs, crying, and cutting himself with stones.

But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him, and cried with a loud voice, and said, "What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not."

For Jesus had said unto him, "Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit."

And Jesus asked him, "What is thy name?" And he answered, saying, "My name is Legion: for we are many." And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country.

Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feeding. And all the unclean spirits besought him, saying, "Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them." And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea, (they were about two thousand,) and were choked in the sea.

And they that fed the swine fled, and told it in the city, and in the country. And the people came to see what was done. And they came to Jesus, and beheld him that was possessed with the devil sitting, and clothed, and in his right mind. And they were afraid.

He that had been possessed besought Jesus that he might be with him. Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, "Go home to thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hath had compassion on thee." And he went his way, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him.
