God gave unto Jesus Christ a revelation to shew his servants things which must shortly come to pass. Jesus sent and signified it by his angel unto John, who bare record of the word of God, the testimony of Jesus Christ, and all things that he saw. Blessed was he that readeth, they that hear, and they that keep what was written, for the time was at hand.

John wrote unto the seven churches in Asia with grace and peace from him which is, which was, and which is to come; from the seven Spirits before his throne; and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Jesus loved his people, washed them from their sins in his own blood, and made them kings and priests unto God and his Father. He cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him. The Lord declared himself Alpha and Omega, the Almighty.

John was in the isle called Patmos for the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. He was a brother and companion in tribulation, in the kingdom, and in the patience of Jesus Christ. Being in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, John heard behind him a great voice as of a trumpet. It commanded him to write what he saw in a book and send it unto the seven churches: Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamos, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.

John turned to see the voice. Before him were seven golden candlesticks, and in their midst stood one like unto the Son of man. His garment reached down to the foot, and a golden girdle bound his breast. His head and hairs were white like wool and snow. His eyes were as a flame of fire; his feet like fine brass burning in a furnace; his voice as the sound of many waters. Seven stars were in his right hand. A sharp twoedged sword went out of his mouth, and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength.

John fell at his feet as dead. The figure laid his right hand upon John and said, “Fear not; I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth, and was dead; behold, I am alive for evermore, and have the keys of hell and of death.” He commanded John to write the things seen, the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter.

He also made the mystery plain. The seven stars were the angels of the seven churches, and the seven golden candlesticks were the seven churches.
