There was a kinsman of Naomi's husband, a mighty man of wealth named Boaz, of the family of Elimelech. The barley harvest had come upon Bethlehem, and the fields stood golden under the morning sun.

Ruth the Moabitess said unto Naomi, "Let me go to the field and glean ears of corn." Naomi said unto her, "Go, my daughter."

She went forth and came unto a field belonging to Boaz. She knew it not. She walked behind the reapers, bending low, gathering what fell. The stalks were rough against her fingers. The sun climbed and sweat ran upon her neck.

Boaz came from Bethlehem. "The Lord be with you," he said unto his reapers. They answered, "The Lord bless thee."

He beheld the young woman gleaning at the edge of the rows. He said unto his servant, "Whose damsel is this?"

"The Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi. She hath continued from morning until now and hath not rested save a little."

Boaz said unto Ruth, "Hearest thou not, my daughter? Go not to glean in another field. Abide here fast by my maidens. I have charged the young men that they shall not touch thee. When thou art athirst, go unto the vessels and drink."

She fell on her face and bowed to the ground. "Why have I found grace in thine eyes, seeing I am a stranger?"

"It hath been shewed me all thou hast done unto thy mother-in-law since the death of thine husband," Boaz answered. "Thou didst leave thy father and mother and the land of thy nativity. The Lord recompense thy work under whose wings thou art come to trust."

At mealtime Boaz said, "Come hither and eat of the bread and dip thy morsel in the vinegar." She sat beside the reapers. He reached her parched corn. She did eat and was sufficed.

When she rose to glean, Boaz commanded his young men. "Let her glean among the sheaves. Let fall handfuls of purpose for her."

She gleaned until even. She beat out what she had gleaned — about an ephah of barley. She took it into the city and shewed Naomi.

Naomi beheld the grain. "Where hast thou gleaned today? Blessed be he that took knowledge of thee."

"The man's name is Boaz," Ruth said.

Naomi's hands grew still. "Blessed be he of the Lord. The man is near of kin, one of our next kinsmen."

So Ruth kept fast by the maidens of Boaz through barley harvest and wheat harvest. She dwelt with her mother-in-law, and the grain did not fail.