Genesis 24:1-14 (WEB)
1 Abraham was old, and well advanced in age. Yahweh had blessed Abraham in all things.
2 Abraham said to his servant, the elder of his house, who ruled over all that he had, “Please put your hand under my thigh.
3 I will make you swear by Yahweh, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that you shall not take a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I live.
4 But you shall go to my country, and to my relatives, and take a wife for my son Isaac.”
5 The servant said to him, “What if the woman isn’t willing to follow me to this land? Must I bring your son again to the land you came from?”
6 Abraham said to him, “Beware that you don’t bring my son there again.
7 Yahweh, the God of heaven—who took me from my father’s house, and from the land of my birth, who spoke to me, and who swore to me, saying, ‘I will give this land to your offspring—he will send his angel before you, and you shall take a wife for my son from there.
8 If the woman isn’t willing to follow you, then you shall be clear from this oath to me. Only you shall not bring my son there again.”
9 The servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and swore to him concerning this matter.
10 The servant took ten of his master’s camels, and departed, having a variety of good things of his master’s with him. He arose, and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor.
11 He made the camels kneel down outside the city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time that women go out to draw water.
12 He said, “Yahweh, the God of my master Abraham, please give me success today, and show kindness to my master Abraham.
13 Behold, I am standing by the spring of water. The daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water.
14 Let it happen, that the young lady to whom I will say, ‘Please let down your pitcher, that I may drink,’ then she says, ‘Drink, and I will also give your camels a drink,’—let her be the one you have appointed for your servant Isaac. By this I will know that you have shown kindness to my master.”
