The tidings from Jerusalem had been brought unto Nehemiah in the palace at Shushan some months before, in the month Chisleu — that the wall of the city was broken down and the gates burned with fire — and Nehemiah had sat and wept and fasted and prayed many days. Now it was the month Nisan, and he was cupbearer unto Artaxerxes the king, standing before him at the table when the wine was brought up. He had not been beforetime sad in the king's presence. But on this day he took up the wine cup, and the king beheld him.

And it came to pass in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that wine was before him: and I took up the wine, and gave it unto the king. Now I had not been beforetime sad in his presence.

Wherefore the king said unto me, "Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? this is nothing else but sorrow of heart."

Then was I very sore afraid.

And I said unto the king, "Let the king live for ever: why should not my countenance be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers' sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gates thereof are consumed with fire?"

Then the king said unto me, "For what dost thou make request?"

So I prayed to the God of heaven.

And I said unto the king, "If it please the king, and if thy servant have found favour in thy sight, that thou wouldest send me unto Judah, unto the city of my fathers' sepulchres, that I may build it."

And the king said unto me (the queen also sitting by him), "For how long shall thy journey be? and when wilt thou return?"

So it pleased the king to send me; and I set him a time.

Moreover I said unto the king, "If it please the king, let letters be given me to the governors beyond the river, that they may convey me over till I come into Judah;

and a letter unto Asaph the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the palace which appertained to the house, and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into."

And the king granted me, according to the good hand of my God upon me.

And the cupbearer went back unto his chamber in the palace at Shushan with the letters of the king in his hand. The wine cup which he had borne that day was washed and set again among the cups of the table for the next evening; the prayer that he had prayed under his breath between the king's question and his own answer was kept among the prayers of Nehemiah; and the way unto Jerusalem opened before him for the spring of the next year.
