The servant came unto Abigail in haste. He told her what had befallen in the field. David's men had been with the shepherds of Nabal at the sheep-shearing. They had kept them. They had been a wall unto them by night and by day. Nabal had railed on David's young men when they came asking for provisions. David was coming with four hundred men. He meant to slay all that pertained to Nabal or ever the morning.

Abigail told not Nabal. She made haste. She took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched corn, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs. She laid them on asses. She sent the servants on before. She followed on her own ass.

She came down by the covert of the hill. David and his men came down against her. When Abigail saw David, she hasted and lighted off the ass. She fell before David on her face. She bowed herself to the ground.

She spake. "Upon me, my lord, upon me let this iniquity be. Let thine handmaid speak in thine audience. Hear the words of thine handmaid. Let not my lord regard this man of Belial, even Nabal. For as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. I thine handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send."

She gave him the gifts that she had brought.

She spake again. "Let this present which thy handmaid hath brought unto my lord be given unto the young men that follow my lord. I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid. For the LORD will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord fighteth the battles of the LORD. Evil hath not been found in thee all thy days."

She named the thing she had come for. "When the LORD shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember thine handmaid. This shall be no grief unto thee, nor offence of heart, that thou hast shed blood causeless."

David heard her. He blessed her. He blessed her counsel. He said: blessed be the LORD God of Israel which sent thee this day to meet me. Blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with mine own hand.

He received what she had brought. He said: go up in peace to thine house. See, I have hearkened to thy voice and have accepted thy person.
