The servant came to Abigail in haste. He told her what had happened in the field. David's men had been with the shepherds of Nabal at the sheep-shearing. They had guarded them. They had been a wall about them by night and by day. Nabal had insulted David's young men when they came asking for provisions. David was coming with four hundred men. He meant to kill all that pertained to Nabal before morning.

Abigail did not tell Nabal. She made haste. She took two hundred loaves, two bottles of wine, five sheep ready dressed, five measures of parched corn, a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs. She laid them on donkeys. She sent the servants on before. She followed on her own donkey.

She came down by the covert of the hill. David and his men came down against her. When Abigail saw David, she hasted and lighted off the donkey. She fell before David on her face. She bowed herself to the ground.

She spoke. "Upon me let this iniquity be. Let your handmaid speak in your audience. Hear the words of your handmaid. Let not my lord regard this man of Belial, Nabal. For as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. I your handmaid did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent."

She gave him the gifts that she had brought.

She spoke again. "Let this present which your handmaid has brought unto my lord be given to the young men that follow my lord. Forgive the trespass of your handmaid. For the LORD will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord fights the battles of the LORD. Evil has not been found in you all your days."

She named the thing she had come for. "When the LORD shall have dealt well with my lord, remember your handmaid. Then let this be no grief unto you, nor offense of heart, that you have shed blood causeless."

David heard her. He blessed her. He blessed her advice. He said: blessed is the LORD God of Israel that sent you this day to meet me. Blessed are you, who have kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with my own hand.

He received what she had brought. He said: go up in peace to your house. See, I have hearkened to your voice and have accepted your person.
