The man Nabal was great and rich. He had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. He was shearing his sheep in Carmel. The man himself was churlish and evil in his doings.

David in the wilderness had heard of the shearing. He had sent ten young men unto Nabal with a courteous greeting and a request for provisions. David's men had been with Nabal's shepherds many days. They had kept them. They had taken nought of theirs. The young men had asked Nabal for whatsoever came to his hand.

Nabal had answered them roughly. He had said: who is David? who is the son of Jesse? There be many servants now-a-days that break away every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be? He had sent the young men back empty.

David had heard the answer. He had girded on his sword. He had said: surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness. He had said: so and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain to him by the morning light so much as one. He had set forth with four hundred men.

A young man of Nabal's household told Abigail. He told her what David's men had been unto them in the field. They had been a wall unto them by night and by day. He told her what David had said about coming. He told her quickly. She told not Nabal.

She made haste. She took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched corn, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs. She laid them on asses. She sent the servants on before. She followed on her own ass. She stayed not on the way.

She came down by the covert of the hill. David and his men came down against her. When Abigail saw David, she hasted and lighted off the ass. She fell before David on her face. She bowed herself to the ground at his feet.

She spake for a long while. She took the iniquity upon herself.

"Hear the words of thine handmaid. Let not my lord regard this man of Belial. As his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. I thine handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send. Now therefore, my lord, as the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing the LORD hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord, be as Nabal. Let this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought be given unto the young men that follow my lord. I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid. The LORD will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord fighteth the battles of the LORD, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days. The soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with the LORD thy God. When the LORD shall have done to my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel, this shall be no grief unto thee, that thou hast shed blood causeless. When the LORD shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember thine handmaid."

David heard her. He blessed her. He blessed her counsel. He said: blessed be the LORD God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me. Blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with mine own hand.

He received what she had brought. He said: go up in peace to thine house. See, I have hearkened to thy voice and have accepted thy person.

Abigail came back unto Nabal. He held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. His heart was merry within him. He was very drunken. She told him nothing that night, less or more, until the morning light.

In the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, she told him these things. His heart died within him. He became as a stone. About ten days after the LORD smote Nabal, that he died.

David heard that Nabal was dead. He said: blessed be the LORD, that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil. The LORD hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. He sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him to wife. The servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel. They spake unto her: David sent us unto thee, to take thee to him to wife. She arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said: behold, let thine handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord. She hasted and went upon an ass, with five damsels of hers going after her. She went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
