The man Nabal was great and rich. He had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. He was shearing his sheep in Carmel. The man himself was churlish and evil in his doings.

David in the wilderness had heard of the shearing. He had sent ten young men unto Nabal with a courteous greeting and a request for provisions. David's men had been with Nabal's shepherds many days. They had kept them. They had taken nought of theirs. The young men had asked Nabal for whatsoever came to his hand.

Nabal had answered them roughly. He had said: who is David? who is the son of Jesse? There be many servants now-a-days that break away every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be? He had sent the young men back empty.

David had heard the answer. He had girded on his sword. He had said: surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness. He had said: so and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain to him by the morning light so much as one. He had set forth with four hundred men.

A young man of Nabal's household told Abigail. He told her what David's men had been unto them in the field. They had been a wall unto them by night and by day. He told her what David had said about coming. He told her quickly. She told not Nabal.

She made haste. She took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched corn, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs. She laid them on asses. She sent the servants on before. She followed on her own ass. She stayed not on the way.

She came down by the covert of the hill. David and his men came down against her. When Abigail saw David, she hasted and lighted off the ass. She fell before David on her face. She bowed herself to the ground at his feet.

She spake for a long while. She took the iniquity upon herself. She asked David to regard not Nabal. She said Nabal's name meant folly. She gave him the gifts. She said the LORD would make him a sure house because he fought the LORD's battles. She named the thing she had come for. She said: when the LORD shall have dealt well with my lord, this shall be no grief unto thee, that thou hast shed blood causeless. She asked him to remember her then.

David heard her. He blessed her. He blessed her counsel. He said: blessed be the LORD God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me. Blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with mine own hand.

He received what she had brought. He said: go up in peace to thine house. See, I have hearkened to thy voice and have accepted thy person.
