The woman had been the wife of one of the sons of the prophets — the company of young prophets that gathered about Elisha at Gilgal and at Bethel and at Jericho. Her husband had died and left her with two sons and with a debt that she could not pay; and the creditor had come unto her, saying that he would take her two boys to be his bondmen until the debt was worked off. She had run out of the house and gone to find Elisha at the door of his lodging.

Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying, "Thy servant my husband is dead; and thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord: and the creditor is come to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen."

And Elisha said unto her, "What shall I do for thee? tell me, what hast thou in the house?"

And she said, "Thine handmaid hath not any thing in the house, save a pot of oil."

Then he said, "Go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbours, even empty vessels; borrow not a few.

And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons, and shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full."

So she went from him, and shut the door upon her and upon her sons. They brought the vessels unto her, and she poured out.

And it came to pass, when the vessels were full, that she said unto her son, "Bring me yet a vessel."

And he said unto her, "There is not a vessel more." And the oil stayed.

Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, "Go, sell the oil, and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children of the rest."

And the boys carried the last full vessel down the steps of the house and set it with the others against the wall of the inner room. The neighbours who had lent the jars stood without in the courtyard waiting for the return of their pots; the widow stepped without to count what she had been given; and the oil from the one small pot stayed in all the vessels of the neighbourhood, ready for the market in the morning, in the small courtyard of the widow of the prophet's son.
