My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring? O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent.

But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel. Our fathers trusted in thee. They cried unto thee, and were delivered. They trusted in thee, and were not confounded.

But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people. All they that see me laugh me to scorn. They shoot out the lip. They shake the head, saying, "He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him."

But thou art he that took me out of the womb. Thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother's breasts. Thou art my God from my mother's belly.

Be not far from me, for trouble is near. There is none to help. Many bulls have compassed me. Strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round. They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.

I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels. My strength is dried up like a potsherd. My tongue cleaveth to my jaws. Thou hast brought me into the dust of death.

For dogs have compassed me. The assembly of the wicked have inclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I may tell all my bones. They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.

But be not thou far from me, O Lord. O my strength, haste thee to help me. Deliver my soul from the sword, my darling from the power of the dog. Save me from the lion's mouth. Yea, thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.

I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. Ye that fear the Lord, praise him! All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him!

For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard.

My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation. I will pay my vows before them that fear him. The meek shall eat and be satisfied. Let your heart live for ever.

All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord. All the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee, for the kingdom is the Lord's. He is the governor among the nations.

All they that go down to the dust shall bow before him, even he that cannot keep his own soul alive. A seed shall serve him. It shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation. They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done this.
