Exodus 16:1-18 (KJV)

1 And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which
is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt.
2 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness:
3 And the children of Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the LORD in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh pots,
and when we did eat bread to the full; for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.
4 Then said the LORD unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you; and the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day, that I may prove them, whether they will walk in my law, or no.
5 And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth day they shall prepare
that which they bring in; and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily.
6 And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel, At even, then ye shall know that the LORD hath brought you out from the land of Egypt:
7 And in the morning, then ye shall see the glory of the LORD; for that he heareth your murmurings against the LORD: and what
are we, that ye murmur against us?
8 And Moses said,
This shall be, when the LORD shall give you in the evening flesh to eat, and in the morning bread to the full; for that the LORD heareth your murmurings which ye murmur against him: and what
are
 we? your murmurings
are not against us, but against the LORD.
9 And Moses spake unto Aaron, Say unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, Come near before the LORD: for he hath heard your murmurings.
10 And it came to pass, as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness, and, behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud.
11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
12 I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel: speak unto them, saying, At even ye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread; and ye shall know that I
am the LORD your God.
13 And it came to pass, that at even the quails came up, and covered the camp: and in the morning the dew lay round about the host.
14 And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness
there lay a small round thing,
as small as the hoar frost on the ground.
15 And when the children of Israel saw
it, they said one to another, It
is manna: for they wist not what it
was.
 And Moses said unto them, This
is the bread which the LORD hath given you to eat.
16 This
is the thing which the LORD hath commanded, Gather of it every man
according to his eating, an omer for every man, according to the number of your persons; take ye every man for
them which
are in his tents.
17 And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some less.
18 And when they did mete
it with an omer, he that gathered much had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack; they gathered every man according to his eating.
