The whole congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from Elim and came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt.

The people murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness.

"Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt," they said, "when we sat by the flesh pots, and when we did eat bread to the full. For ye have brought us forth into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger."

The Lord said unto Moses, "Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you. The people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day, that I may prove them, whether they will walk in my law or no. On the sixth day they shall prepare that which they bring in, and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily."

Moses and Aaron said unto the people, "At even ye shall know that the Lord hath brought you out from the land of Egypt. In the morning ye shall see the glory of the Lord, for he heareth your murmurings against him."

Moses said, "The Lord shall give you in the evening flesh to eat, and in the morning bread to the full. Your murmurings are not against us, but against the Lord."

At even the quails came up and covered the camp. The birds settled upon the ground in great number.

In the morning the dew lay round about the host. When the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar frost on the ground. The children of Israel saw it and said one to another, "What is it?" For they wist not what it was.

Moses said unto them, "This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat. This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded: gather of it every man according to his eating, an omer for every man, according to the number of your persons. Take ye every man for them which are in his tents."

The children of Israel did so. They gathered, some more, some less. When they did mete it with an omer, he that gathered much had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack. They gathered every man according to his eating.
