Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of the church. He killed James the brother of John with the sword. Because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to take Peter also. These were the days of unleavened bread.

He put him in prison and delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers to keep him, intending after the Passover to bring him forth to the people.

Peter therefore was kept in prison: but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him.

The night before Herod would have brought him forth, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and the keepers before the door kept the prison.

And behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison. He smote Peter on the side and raised him up. "Arise up quickly," the angel said.

His chains fell off from his hands.

"Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals." Peter did so. "Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me."

Peter went out and followed him. He wist not that it was true which was done by the angel, but thought he saw a vision. They passed the first ward and the second, and came unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city. It opened to them of his own accord. They passed through one street, and forthwith the angel departed from him.

Peter came to himself. "Now I know of a surety," he said, "that the Lord hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod."

He came to the house of Mary the mother of John Mark, where many were gathered together praying. He knocked at the door of the gate. A damsel named Rhoda came to hearken. When she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate for gladness, but ran in and told them Peter stood before the gate.

"Thou art mad," they said.

Peter continued knocking. When they opened and saw him, they were astonished. He beckoned unto them to hold their peace, and declared how the Lord had brought him out. "Go show these things unto James, and to the brethren," he said. Then he departed.

As soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the soldiers, what was become of Peter.
