Philip the evangelist had been preaching in the cities of Samaria after the persecution that scattered the church from Jerusalem. Many had believed; many had been baptized; the unclean spirits had come out of the afflicted with loud cries, and the lame had walked. Then an angel of the Lord spake unto Philip and sent him southward. He went down by the way toward Gaza, the desert way; and there came along it a chariot with a man of Ethiopia therein — a eunuch of great authority under Candace the queen, who had come up unto Jerusalem to worship and was on his way home.

And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, "Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert."

And he arose and went: and, behold, a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch of great authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship.

He was returning, and sitting in his chariot, and read the prophet Esaias.

Then the Spirit said unto Philip, "Go near, and join thyself to this chariot."

And Philip ran thither to him, and heard him read the prophet Esaias, and said, "Understandest thou what thou readest?"

And he said, "How can I, except some man should guide me?" And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him.

The place of the scripture which he read was this,

"He was led as a sheep to the slaughter;
and like a lamb dumb before his shearer,
so opened he not his mouth.

In his humiliation his judgment was taken away:
and who shall declare his generation?
for his life is taken from the earth."

And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, "I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other man?"

Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached unto him Jesus.

And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water: and the eunuch said, "See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized?"

And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.

And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more: and he went on his way rejoicing.

And the eunuch went on toward Ethiopia with the rolling of the wheels of the chariot under him and the southern sun rising over the desert way. The water by the side of the way sank back into the dry ground; Philip stood by the road of Azotus where the Spirit had set him down, ready for the next preaching; and the man who had gone up unto Jerusalem to worship returned unto his queen and unto his country, with the scroll of Esaias in his lap and the joy of his baptism upon his face.
