Philip the evangelist had been preaching in the cities of Samaria after the persecution that scattered the church from Jerusalem. Many had believed; many had been baptized; the unclean spirits had come out of the afflicted with loud cries, and the lame had walked. Then an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip and sent him south. He went down by the road toward Gaza, the desert road; and there came along it a chariot with a man of Ethiopia in it — a eunuch of great authority under Candace the queen, who had come up to Jerusalem to worship and was on his way home.

But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, "Arise, and go toward the south to the way that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert."

He arose and went; and behold, there was a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, who had come to Jerusalem to worship.

He was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah.

The Spirit said to Philip, "Go near, and join yourself to this chariot."

Philip ran to him, and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, "Do you understand what you are reading?"

He said, "How can I, unless someone explains it to me?" He begged Philip to come up and sit with him.

Now the passage of the Scripture which he was reading was this,

"He was led as a sheep to the slaughter.
As a lamb before his shearer is silent,
so he doesn't open his mouth.

In his humiliation, his judgment was taken away.
Who will declare His generation?
For his life is taken from the earth."

The eunuch answered Philip, "Who is the prophet talking about? About himself, or about someone else?"

Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, preached to him about Jesus.

As they went on the way, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, "Behold, here is water. What is keeping me from being baptized?"

He commanded the chariot to stand still, and they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.

When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away, and the eunuch didn't see him any more, for he went on his way rejoicing.

And the eunuch went on toward Ethiopia with the rolling of the wheels of the chariot under him and the southern sun rising over the desert road. The water by the side of the road sank back into the dry ground; Philip stood by the road of Azotus where the Spirit had set him down, ready for the next preaching; and the man who had gone up to Jerusalem to worship returned to his queen and to his country, with the scroll of Isaiah in his lap and the joy of his baptism on his face.
