Samuel said unto Saul, "The Lord sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of the words of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, 'I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from Egypt. Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not.'"

So Saul gathered the people together and went out against Amalek. He smote the Amalekites, but he and the people spared Agag the king of the Amalekites, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and all that was good. They would not utterly destroy them.

Then came the word of the Lord unto Samuel, saying, "It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king, for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments." And it grieved Samuel, and he cried unto the Lord all night.

In the morning Samuel rose early to meet Saul. When Samuel came to him, Saul said, "Blessed be thou of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord."

Samuel said, "What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?"

Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites. The people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God. The rest we have utterly destroyed."

Then Samuel said, "Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry."

He said, "Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king."

Then Saul said unto Samuel, "I have sinned. For I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord, and thy words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice."

But Samuel turned about to go away, and Saul laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it rent. Samuel said unto him, "The Lord hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbour of thine, that is better than thou."

Samuel saw Saul no more until the day of his death.
