Samuel said to Saul, "The Lord sent me to anoint you to be king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore listen to the voice of the words of the Lord. The Lord of Armies says, 'I remember what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way when he came up out of Egypt. Now go and strike Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and don't spare them.'"

So Saul gathered the people together and went out against Amalek. He struck the Amalekites, but he and the people spared Agag the king of the Amalekites, and the best of the sheep, the cattle, and all that was good. They would not utterly destroy them.

Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, "It grieves me that I have set up Saul to be king, for he has turned back from following me, and has not performed my commandments." Samuel was angry, and he cried to the Lord all night.

In the morning Samuel rose to meet Saul. When Samuel came to him, Saul said, "Blessed are you by the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord."

Samuel said, "Then what is this bleating of the sheep in my ears, and the lowing of the cattle which I hear?"

Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites. The people spared the best of the sheep and of the cattle to sacrifice to the Lord your God. The rest we have utterly destroyed."

Then Samuel said, "Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry."

He said, "Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king."

Then Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned. For I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord, and your words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice."

But Samuel turned about to go away, and Saul caught the skirt of his robe, and it tore. Samuel said to him, "The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today, and has given it to a neighbor of yours, who is better than you."

Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death.
