For a long time the Philistines had held the pass at Michmash, and the men of Israel had hidden themselves in caves and in the holes of the rocks. And one day Jonathan the son of Saul spoke to the young man who bore his armor.

Now it fell on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man who bore his armor, "Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side." But he didn't tell his father.

Saul stayed in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree which is in Migron: and the people who were with him were about six hundred men;

including Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Yahweh in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. The people didn't know that Jonathan was gone.

Between the passes, by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistines' garrison, there was a rocky crag on the one side, and a rocky crag on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.

The one crag rose up on the north in front of Michmash, and the other on the south in front of Geba.

Jonathan said to the young man who bore his armor, "Come, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that Yahweh will work for us; for there is no restraint on Yahweh to save by many or by few."

His armor bearer said to him, "Do all that is in your heart. Turn and, behold, I am with you according to your heart."

Then Jonathan said, "Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will reveal ourselves to them.

If they say thus to us, 'Wait until we come to you!' then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up to them.

But if they say this, 'Come up to us!' then we will go up; for Yahweh has delivered them into our hand. This shall be the sign to us."

Both of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, "Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they had hidden themselves!"

The men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armor bearer, and said, "Come up to us, and we will show you something!"

Jonathan said to his armor bearer, "Come up after me; for Yahweh has delivered them into the hand of Israel."

Jonathan climbed up on his hands and on his feet, and his armor bearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armor bearer killed them after him.

That first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armor bearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were half a furrow's length in an acre of land.

There was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the raiders, also trembled; and the earth quaked, so there was an exceedingly great trembling.

And the trembling went out from the garrison. The army of the Philistines at Michmash trembled in their tents, the raiders trembled in the field, and the earth itself shook beneath them. Jonathan and his armor bearer stood on the rocks above; and the slaughter of twenty had become a panic running through the whole host of the enemy. And so it was in the days when Jonathan the son of Saul went over to the garrison of the Philistines at Michmash.
