For a long time the Philistines had held the pass at Michmash, and the men of Israel had hidden themselves in caves and in the holes of the rocks. And on a day Jonathan the son of Saul spake unto the young man that bare his armour.

Now it came to pass on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armour, "Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side." But he told not his father.

Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;

including Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the Lord's priest in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.

And between the passages, by which Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines' garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.

The forefront of the one was situate northward over against Michmash, and the other southward over against Gibeah.

And Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armour, "Come, and let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised: it may be that the Lord will work for us: for there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few."

And his armourbearer said unto him, "Do all that is in thine heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart."

Then said Jonathan, "Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will discover ourselves unto them.

If they say thus unto us, 'Tarry until we come to you;' then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.

But if they say thus, 'Come up unto us;' then we will go up: for the Lord hath delivered them into our hand: and this shall be a sign unto us."

And both of them discovered themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, "Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves!"

And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armourbearer, and said, "Come up to us, and we will shew you a thing!"

And Jonathan said unto his armourbearer, "Come up after me: for the Lord hath delivered them into the hand of Israel."

And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armourbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armourbearer slew after him.

And that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armourbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were an half acre of land, which a yoke of oxen might plow.

And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people: the garrison, and the spoilers, they also trembled, and the earth quaked: so it was a very great trembling.

And the trembling went forth from the garrison. The host of the Philistines at Michmash trembled in their tents, the spoilers trembled in the field, and the earth itself shook beneath them. Jonathan and his armourbearer stood upon the rocks above; and the slaughter of twenty was become a panic running through the whole host of the enemy. And so it was in the days when Jonathan the son of Saul went over unto the garrison of the Philistines at Michmash.
