Pashur the son of Immer, a priest and chief governor in the house of the Lord, heard Jeremiah prophesy. He smote the prophet and put him in the stocks at the high gate of Benjamin by the Lord’s house. On the morrow Pashur brought him forth.

Jeremiah told Pashur that the Lord had named him Magor-missabib. He would be a terror unto himself and all his friends. Judah would be given into the hand of Babylon’s king; the city’s strength, labours, precious things, and royal treasures would be spoiled and carried away. Pashur and his house would go into captivity. In Babylon he and the friends to whom he had prophesied lies would die and be buried.

Then Jeremiah cried unto the Lord. “Thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived: thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed. I am in derision daily; every one mocketh me.” Whenever Jeremiah spake, he cried violence and spoil. The word of the Lord was made a reproach and a derision unto him.

He said he would make no more mention of the Lord, nor speak again in his name. But the word burned within him as a fire shut up in his bones. Jeremiah was weary with forbearing and could not stay. He heard the defaming of many. Even his familiars watched for his halting, ready to report him and take their revenge.

Yet Jeremiah declared that the Lord was with him as a mighty terrible one. His persecutors would stumble and not prevail. He opened his cause unto the Lord of hosts, who trieth the righteous and seeth the reins and the heart. Then he called for song and praise, for the Lord had delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers.

His lament did not cease with that praise. Jeremiah cursed the day wherein he was born and withheld blessing from the day his mother bare him. He cursed the man who made his father glad with tidings of a son. He wished that man to be as the cities which the Lord overthrew, hearing a cry in the morning and shouting at noontide, because he had not slain Jeremiah from the womb. “Wherefore came I forth out of the womb,” Jeremiah asked, “to see labour and sorrow, that my days should be consumed with shame?”
