Pashhur son of Immer, the priest and chief officer in Yahweh’s house, heard Jeremiah prophesying. He struck Jeremiah and put him in the stocks at the upper Benjamin Gate in Yahweh’s house. The next day Pashhur released him.

Jeremiah told Pashhur that Yahweh had named him Magormissabib. Pashhur would become a terror to himself and his friends. Judah would be given into the hand of Babylon’s king; the city’s riches, gains, precious things, and royal treasures would be taken away. Pashhur and his household would go to Babylon, where he and the friends to whom he had prophesied falsely would die and be buried.

Then Jeremiah spoke to Yahweh. “You persuaded me, and I was persuaded. You are stronger than I, and have prevailed. I have become a laughingstock all day; everyone mocks me.” Whenever Jeremiah spoke, he had to cry out violence and destruction. Yahweh’s word had become a reproach and derision to him.

He tried to say that he would no longer mention Yahweh or speak in his name. But the word became a burning fire shut within his bones. Jeremiah grew weary of holding it in and could not do so. He heard many defaming him. Even familiar friends watched for his fall, waiting to denounce him and take revenge.

Yet Jeremiah declared that Yahweh was with him as an awesome mighty one. His persecutors would stumble and not prevail. He opened his cause to Yahweh of Armies, who tests the righteous and sees heart and mind. Then he called for song and praise because Yahweh had delivered the needy from the hand of evildoers.

The lament did not end there. Jeremiah cursed the day of his birth and refused a blessing upon the day his mother bore him. He cursed the man who had made his father glad by bringing news of a son. He wished that man were like the cities Yahweh overthrew, hearing a morning cry and noontime shouting, because the messenger had not killed Jeremiah in the womb. “Why did I come out of the womb,” Jeremiah asked, “to see labor and sorrow, that my days should be consumed with shame?”
