Night had fallen upon Jerusalem. The oil lamps within the house of David burned low, and their small flames were steady, for the air stirred not. David was within, and he sat. Then came Nathan the prophet unto him.

Now Nathan had received the word of the LORD, and he spake it plainly, and his voice was clear in the stillness of that room.

"Thus saith the LORD of hosts: I took thee from the sheepfold, even from following after the flock, that thou shouldest be prince over my people, over Israel."

The words hung in the lamplight. And David sat, and hearkened.

"I was with thee whithersoever thou didst go. I struck down thine enemies from before thee. And I have wrought thee a name among the great names of the earth."

Nathan stood before the king and did not cease. His hands were still at his sides.

"Moreover I shall ordain a place for my people Israel and shall plant them there, that they may dwell in their own land and be troubled no more. The sons of wickedness shall not afflict them again as in former days. And even as I appointed judges over my people Israel, so have I given thee rest from all thine adversaries round about."

Nathan drew breath. And the words that followed bore a greater weight.

"The LORD declareth this also unto thee: that he himself shall build thee a house. And when thy days be accomplished, and thou liest down with thy fathers, I shall raise up thy seed after thee, one that shall proceed from thine own body, and I shall establish his kingdom. He shall build a house unto my name, and I shall set the throne of his kingdom firm, that it endure for ever."

The hands of David rested upon his knees. The flames wavered once, then were still.

"I shall be unto him a father, and he shall be unto me a son. If he turn to iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod that men bear, and with such stripes as the children of men do suffer. Yet my mercy shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before thy face."

"Thy house and thy kingdom shall stand fast before thee for ever. Thy throne shall be established without end."

The lamps burned on. And Nathan stood before David in the dim light.
