Word had travelled into the country of Midian. The shepherds of the desert had told it at the wells; the traders going down unto Egypt had carried it on their caravans; and the tidings that the Lord had brought Israel up out of Egypt with a mighty hand had at last come unto the household of Jethro the priest of Midian — Moses' father in law, the man whose flocks Moses had kept forty years. Jethro heard. He took Zipporah and the two sons of Moses with him, and they came across the wilderness unto the mountain of God.

When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father in law, heard of all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and that the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt;

Then Jethro, Moses' father in law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,

And her two sons; of which the name of the one was Gershom; for he said, "I have been an alien in a strange land":

And the name of the other was Eliezer; for the God of my father, said he, was mine help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh:

And Jethro, Moses' father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God:

And he said unto Moses, "I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and thy wife, and her two sons with her."

And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance, and kissed him; and they asked each other of their welfare; and they came into the tent.

And Moses told his father in law all that the Lord had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail that had come upon them by the way, and how the Lord delivered them.

And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the Lord had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.

And Jethro said, "Blessed be the Lord, who hath delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hath delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.

Now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods: for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly he was above them."

And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses' father in law before God.

And the meat was set forth before the tent. The smoke of the burnt offering arose into the desert air; the elders of Israel sat with the priest of Midian and did eat the bread together; and the man who had been a stranger to the covenant blessed the God who had brought his daughter's people out of bondage. And the camp of Israel rested that evening at the mountain of God in Sinai.
