Asaph was one of the chief singers in the house of the Lord — the Levite whom David had appointed in the days of the bringing up of the ark, to stand before his brethren and to play upon the cymbals and the harps. He had served many years in the courts of the sanctuary. And in one of the seasons of his service he sat down and wrote a song of confession; for he had nearly slipped in the way of his service, and the song was concerning how he had nearly slipped, and how he had not. And the song went thus.

"Truly God is good to Israel,
even to such as are of a clean heart.

But as for me, my feet were almost gone;
my steps had well nigh slipped.

For I was envious at the foolish,
when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.

For there are no bands in their death:
but their strength is firm.

They are not in trouble as other men;
neither are they plagued like other men.

Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain;
violence covereth them as a garment.

Their eyes stand out with fatness:
they have more than heart could wish.

They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression:
they speak loftily.

They set their mouth against the heavens,
and their tongue walketh through the earth.

Therefore his people return hither:
and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.

And they say, 'How doth God know?
and is there knowledge in the most High?'

Behold, these are the ungodly,
who prosper in the world; they increase in riches.

Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain,
and washed my hands in innocency.

For all the day long have I been plagued,
and chastened every morning.

If I say, 'I will speak thus';
behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children.

When I thought to know this,
it was too painful for me;

Until I went into the sanctuary of God;
then understood I their end."

And the psalm continued from thence for many lines more. The singer had set down the slipping and the recovery, the envy and the sanctuary; and he had spoken not as one which had never been tempted by the way of the wicked, but as one which had been almost lost and then drawn back; and the psalm should be kept among the songs of Asaph for the singers that came after him to use in the temple service.
