Asaph was one of the chief singers in the house of the Lord — the Levite whom David had appointed in the days of the bringing of the ark, to stand before the brothers and to play upon the cymbals and the harps. He had served many years in the courts of the sanctuary. And in one of the seasons of his service he sat down and wrote a song of confession; for he had nearly slipped in the way of his service, and the song was about how he had nearly slipped, and how he had not. And the song went thus.

"Surely God is good to Israel,
to those who are pure in heart.

But as for me, my feet were almost gone.
My steps had nearly slipped.

For I was envious of the arrogant,
when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.

For there are no struggles in their death,
but their strength is firm.

They are free from burdens of men,
neither are they plagued like other men.

Therefore pride is like a chain around their neck.
Violence covers them like a garment.

Their eyes bulge with fat.
Their minds pass the limits of conceit.

They scoff and speak with malice.
In arrogance, they threaten oppression.

They have set their mouth in the heavens.
Their tongue walks through the earth.

Therefore their people return to them,
and they drink up waters of abundance.

They say, 'How does God know?
Is there knowledge in the Most High?'

Behold, these are the wicked.
Being always at ease, they increase in riches.

Surely I have cleansed my heart in vain,
and washed my hands in innocence,

For all day long I have been plagued,
and punished every morning.

If I had said, 'I will speak thus';
behold, I would have betrayed the generation of your children.

When I tried to understand this,
it was too painful for me;

Until I entered God's sanctuary,
and considered their latter end."

And the psalm continued from there for many lines more. The singer had set down the slipping and the recovery, the envy and the sanctuary; and he had spoken not as one who had never been tempted by the way of the wicked, but as one who had been almost lost and then drawn back; and the psalm would be kept among the songs of Asaph for the singers who came after him to use in the temple service.
