They had been brought into Babylon from Jerusalem in the third year of the king's reign. They had been chosen out from among the children of the captives — young men without blemish, well favoured, skilful in all wisdom, such as had ability to stand in the king's palace.

Daniel was one of them.

The king's meat was set before them at the appointed hour. Wine from the king's table. Meat from the king's table. Three years of nourishing, and then they should stand before the king.

But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank.

He went to the prince of the eunuchs. He requested that he might not defile himself.

The prince was afraid. He said, "I fear my lord the king, who hath appointed your meat and your drink. Why should he see your faces worse liking than the children which are of your sort? Then shall ye make me endanger my head to the king."

Daniel pressed him not there.

He said unto Melzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had set over Daniel and Hananiah and Mishael and Azariah —

"Prove thy servants, I beseech thee, ten days. Let them give us pulse to eat, and water to drink. Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, and the countenance of the children that eat of the portion of the king's meat. And as thou seest, deal with thy servants."

So Melzar consented to them in this matter, and proved them ten days.

The ten days passed.

At the end of them, their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat.

Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat, and the wine that they should drink. He gave them pulse, from that day forth.

The three years passed. Daniel and the three with him grew in knowledge. God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom. And Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams.

Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring them in, the prince of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar.

And the king communed with them.

Among them all was found none like Daniel and Hananiah and Mishael and Azariah. The king found them ten times better in wisdom than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm.

Daniel continued before the king from that year. He continued even unto the first year of King Cyrus.
