After Samson had been delivered into the hands of the Philistines, they had bound him with fetters of brass. They had put out his eyes and brought him down to Gaza. They had set him to grind in the prison house, and the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.

Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice. They said, "Our god hath delivered Samson our enemy into our hand."

And when the people beheld him, they praised their god, and said, "Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us."

And it came to pass, when their hearts were merry, they said, "Call for Samson, that he may make us sport." They called for Samson out of the prison house, and he made them sport. They set him between the pillars of the great house.

Then Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, "Suffer me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house standeth, that I may lean upon them."

Now the house was full of men and women. All the lords of the Philistines were there. And there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that beheld while Samson made sport.

And Samson called unto the Lord, and said, "O Lord God, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes."

And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left. And Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines." And he bowed himself with all his might.

And the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew at his death were more than they which he slew in his life.

Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the buryingplace of Manoah his father. And he had judged Israel twenty years.
