Jacob had come again unto the land of Canaan with his wives and his children and his flocks. He had bought a parcel of ground at Shechem and pitched his tent there; and the city had brought violence upon his household in the matter of Dinah, and Simeon and Levi had taken sword and gone in and brought back vengeance, and Jacob had said unto them, "Ye have troubled me, to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land." The household had tarried at Shechem in the trouble of those days. And then the word of God came unto Jacob.

God said unto Jacob, "Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother."

Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him, "Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments.

And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went."

And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and the earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.

And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob.

So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.

And he built there an altar, and called the place El-bethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother.

And the altar of El-bethel stood among the stones of Luz where it had been builded. The oak by Shechem kept its secret — the buried gods of the household — and the cities of the country round about Bethel kept the terror that had fallen upon them and did not pursue after Jacob's people; and Jacob renewed at the altar what had been spoken unto him under the open sky in the way to Haran twenty years before. And the household of Israel abode at Bethel.
