Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. Then Ahaziah fell down through the lattice in his upper room in Samaria and was sick, and he sent messengers: “Go, inquire of Baal Zebub, the god of Ekron, whether I will recover from this sickness.”

But Yahweh’s angel told Elijah the Tishbite to go up and meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and say to them, “Is it because there is no God in Israel that you go to inquire of Baal Zebub, the god of Ekron? Now therefore Yahweh says, ‘You will not come down from the bed where you have gone up, but you will surely die.’” Elijah went, and the messengers returned to the king. He asked why they had returned, and they told him of the man who had met them and the word he had spoken. “What kind of man was he?” the king asked. “He was a hairy man, and wearing a leather belt around his waist,” they answered. “It’s Elijah the Tishbite,” he said.

The king sent a captain of fifty with his fifty. The captain went up to Elijah, who was sitting on the top of the hill, and said, “Man of God, the king has said, ‘Come down!’” Elijah answered, “If I am a man of God, then let fire come down from the sky and consume you and your fifty!” Fire came down from the sky and consumed him and his fifty. The king sent another captain of fifty, who said, “Man of God, the king has said, ‘Come down quickly!’” Elijah answered as before, and God’s fire came down from the sky and consumed him and his fifty.

The king sent a third captain of fifty. This captain went up, fell on his knees before Elijah, and begged him: “Man of God, please let my life and the life of these fifty of your servants be precious in your sight. Behold, fire came down from the sky and consumed the last two captains of fifty with their fifties. But now let my life be precious in your sight.”

Yahweh’s angel said to Elijah, “Go down with him. Don’t be afraid of him.” So Elijah arose and went down with him to the king, and told him that because he had sent to inquire of Baal Zebub, as though there were no God in Israel to inquire of, he would not come down from his bed, but would surely die. So Ahaziah died according to Yahweh’s word which Elijah had spoken. Jehoram began to reign in his place in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, because Ahaziah had no son. The rest of the acts of Ahaziah are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
