Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. Then Ahaziah fell down through a lattice in his upper chamber in Samaria and was sick, and he sent messengers: “Go, enquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron whether I shall recover of this disease.”

But the angel of the Lord told Elijah the Tishbite to go up and meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and say unto them, “Is it not because there is not a God in Israel, that ye go to enquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron? Now therefore thus saith the Lord, Thou shalt not come down from that bed on which thou art gone up, but shalt surely die.” Elijah departed, and the messengers turned back unto the king. He asked why they had turned back, and they told him of the man that came up to meet them and the word he had spoken. “What manner of man was he?” the king asked. “He was an hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his loins,” they answered. “It is Elijah the Tishbite,” he said.

The king sent unto him a captain of fifty with his fifty. The captain went up to Elijah, who sat on the top of an hill, and said, “Thou man of God, the king hath said, Come down.” Elijah answered, “If I be a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty.” There came down fire from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. The king sent another captain of fifty, who said, “O man of God, thus hath the king said, Come down quickly.” Elijah answered as before, and the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.

The king sent a captain of the third fifty. This captain went up, fell on his knees before Elijah, and besought him: “O man of God, I pray thee, let my life, and the life of these fifty thy servants, be precious in thy sight. Behold, there came fire down from heaven, and burnt up the two captains of the former fifties with their fifties: therefore let my life now be precious in thy sight.”

The angel of the Lord said unto Elijah, “Go down with him: be not afraid of him.” So Elijah arose and went down with him unto the king, and told him that forasmuch as he had sent to enquire of Baal-zebub, as though there were no God in Israel to enquire of his word, he should not come down off that bed, but should surely die. So Ahaziah died according to the word of the Lord which Elijah had spoken. Jehoram reigned in his stead in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, because Ahaziah had no son. The rest of the acts of Ahaziah are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.
