Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh and captain of the guard, bought him of the Ishmaelites that had brought him thither. And the Lord was with Joseph. He prospered in the house of his Egyptian master, and his master saw that the Lord was with him, and made all that he did to prosper in his hand. So Joseph found grace in Potiphar's sight, and was made overseer over his house; and all that he had, he put into Joseph's hand. From that time the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake — his blessing upon all that Potiphar had, in the house and in the field — so that his master left all in Joseph's hand, and knew not aught he had, save the bread he did eat. Now Joseph was a goodly person, and well favoured.

After a time, his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph, and said, Lie with me. But he refused. My master hath put all that he hath into my hand, and hath kept back nothing from me but thee, because thou art his wife, he said. There is none greater in this house than I. How then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God? Day by day she spake to him, but he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.

One day he went into the house to do his business, and there was none of the men of the house within. She caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. But he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.

When she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled, she called unto the men of her house. See, said she, he hath brought in an Hebrew to mock us. He came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice; and when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his garment with me, and fled. She laid up his garment by her until his master came home, and then told him the same tale — that the Hebrew servant he had brought to them had come in to mock her, and had fled and left his garment behind when she lifted her voice and cried.

When his master heard his wife say, After this manner did thy servant to me, his wrath was kindled. He took Joseph, and put him into the prison, the place where the king's prisoners were bound; and he was there in the prison.

But the Lord was with Joseph even there, and shewed him mercy, and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison. The keeper committed all the prisoners into Joseph's hand, and whatsoever was done there, he was the doer of it. The keeper looked not to anything under Joseph's hand, because the Lord was with him; and that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper.
