1 Timothy 2:1-3:16 (WEB)

1 I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, and givings of thanks be made for all men,
2 for kings and all who are in high places, that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and reverence.
3 For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior,
4 who desires all people to be saved and come to full knowledge of the truth.
5 For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
6 who gave himself as a ransom for all, the testimony at the proper time,
7 to which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle—I am telling the truth in Christ, not lying—a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
8 I desire therefore that the men in every place pray, lifting up holy hands without anger and doubting.
9 In the same way, that women also adorn themselves in decent clothing, with modesty and propriety, not with braided hair, gold, pearls, or expensive clothing,
10 but with good works, which is appropriate for women professing godliness.
11 Let a woman learn in quietness with full submission.
12 But I don’t permit a woman to teach, nor to exercise authority over a man, but to be in quietness.
13 For Adam was formed first, then Eve.
14 Adam wasn’t deceived, but the woman, being deceived, has fallen into disobedience;
15 but she will be saved through her childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and holiness with sobriety.
1 This is a faithful saying: someone who seeks to be an overseer desires a good work.
2 The overseer therefore must be without reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, sensible, modest, hospitable, good at teaching;
3 not a drinker, not violent, not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous;
4 one who rules his own house well, having children in subjection with all reverence;
5 (for how could someone who doesn’t know how to rule his own house take care of God’s assembly?)
6 not a new convert, lest being puffed up he fall into the same condemnation as the devil.
7 Moreover he must have good testimony from those who are outside, to avoid falling into reproach and the snare of the devil.
8 Servants, in the same way, must be reverent, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for money,
9 holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.
10 Let them also first be tested; then let them serve if they are blameless.
11 Their wives in the same way must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, and faithful in all things.
12 Let servants be husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well.
13 For those who have served well gain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
14 These things I write to you, hoping to come to you shortly,
15 but if I wait long, that you may know how men ought to behave themselves in God’s house, which is the assembly of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth.
16 Without controversy, the mystery of godliness is great: God was revealed in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen by angels, preached among the nations, believed on in the world, and received up in glory.
