Paul set prayer first among the duties of the house of God. Supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving were to be made for all men, including kings and all who held authority, that believers might lead quiet and peaceable lives in godliness and honesty. This was good before God the Saviour, who would have all men to be saved and come unto the knowledge of the truth. There is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who hath given himself a ransom for all.

Prayer was to be accompanied by holy conduct. Men everywhere were to pray without wrath or doubting. Women were to adorn themselves modestly, giving greater care to the good works proper for those professing godliness than to costly display. Paul directed a woman to learn in silence with subjection, and he did not suffer her to teach or usurp authority over the man. He grounded these instructions in Adam and Eve, said that she would be saved in childbearing if they continued, and named faith, charity, holiness, and sobriety.

A man who desired the office of a bishop desired a good work, and therefore his character must bear examination. A bishop was to be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, well behaved, hospitable, and apt to teach. He must not be given to wine, violence, strife, covetousness, or filthy lucre. He had to rule his own house well, for one unable to do so could not take care of the church of God. He must not be a novice, lest pride lead him into the condemnation of the devil. He also needed a good report from those without, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.

Deacons likewise were to be grave, sincere, sober, and free from greed. They were to hold the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience and first be proved. Their wives also were to be grave, temperate, faithful, and not slanderers. The husband of one wife and good household rule were required of deacons as well. Those who served well purchased a good degree and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.

These commands taught how men ought to behave in the house of God, the church of the living God, which doth stand as the pillar and ground of the truth. Therein stood the great mystery of godliness: God manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached among the Gentiles, believed on in the world, and received up into glory.
