The three men rose up from the place where Abraham had given them food, in the plains of Mamre. They looked toward Sodom in the valley below. Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

The Lord did not hide from Abraham that thing which he was about to do.

For Abraham should surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth should be blessed in him. He had been known of the Lord, that he might command his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord.

And the Lord said, "Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous, I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me. And if not, I will know."

The two men with him turned their faces from thence, and went on toward Sodom, down the slope of the hills, into the valley that lay beneath the city.

But Abraham stood yet before the Lord.

He turned not back unto his tent. He called not after the two men. He stood where he had been standing.

Abraham drew near.

He said, "Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked? Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city. Wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked. And that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee. Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?"

And the Lord said, "If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes."

Abraham heard the answer. He drew breath. He spake again, but more carefully this time, for the thing he had asked had been granted, and he had purposed to ask further.

He said, "Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which am but dust and ashes. Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous. Wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five?"

He said, "If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it."

Abraham spake unto him yet again. "Peradventure there shall be forty found there."

And he said, "I will not do it for forty's sake."

The silence between the askings grew longer each time. Abraham's voice was more careful at every turn.

"Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Peradventure there shall thirty be found there."

"I will not do it, if I find thirty there."

"Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord. Peradventure there shall be twenty found there."

"I will not destroy it for twenty's sake."

Abraham asked one more time. He knew it would be the last. He said it in the voice of a man who knew he stood at the edge of what he could ask.

"Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once. Peradventure ten shall be found there."

"I will not destroy it for ten's sake."

And the Lord went his way, as soon as he had left communing with Abraham.

Abraham called not after him.

He stood for a moment in the place where the Lord had been, with the wind in the high grass of the plains of Mamre, and the two men yet walking toward Sodom in the valley below.

Then he turned. He returned unto his place — unto his tent, unto Sarah within it, unto the work of the evening.

The road back unto the tent was longer than the road out had been.
