The three men rose up from the place where Abraham had given them food, in the plains of Mamre. They looked toward Sodom in the valley below. Abraham walked out with them to see them on their way.

Yahweh did not hide from Abraham what he was about to do.

For Abraham would surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth would be blessed in him. He had been known by Yahweh, that he might command his children and his household after him to keep the way of Yahweh.

Yahweh said, "Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous, I will go down now, and see whether their deeds are as bad as the reports which have come to me. If not, I will know."

The two men who were with him turned from there and went on toward Sodom, down the slope of the hills, into the valley that lay beneath the city.

But Abraham stood yet before Yahweh.

He did not turn back to his tent. He did not call after the two men. He stood where he had been standing.

Abraham came near.

He said, "Will you sweep away the righteous with the wicked? What if there are fifty righteous within the city? Will you consume and not spare the place for the fifty righteous who are in it? Be it far from you to do things like that, to kill the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous should be like the wicked. May that be far from you. Shouldn't the Judge of all the earth do right?"

Yahweh said, "If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare the whole place for their sake."

Abraham heard the answer. He took a breath. He spoke again, but more carefully this time, because the thing he had asked had been granted, and he had decided to ask further.

He said, "See now, I have taken it on myself to speak to the Lord, although I am dust and ashes. What if there will lack five of the fifty righteous? Will you destroy all the city for lack of five?"

He said, "I will not destroy it if I find forty-five there."

Abraham spoke to him yet again. "What if there are forty found there?"

He said, "I will not do it for the forty's sake."

The silence between the asks grew longer each time. Abraham's voice was more careful at each turn.

"Oh don't let the Lord be angry, and I will speak. What if there are thirty found there?"

"I will not do it if I find thirty there."

"See now, I have taken it on myself to speak to the Lord. What if there are twenty found there?"

"I will not destroy it for the twenty's sake."

Abraham asked one more time. He knew it would be the last. He said it in the voice of a man who knew he was at the edge of what he could ask.

"Oh don't let the Lord be angry, and I will speak just once more. What if ten are found there?"

"I will not destroy it for the ten's sake."

Then Yahweh went his way, as soon as he had finished communing with Abraham.

Abraham did not call after him.

He stood for a moment in the place where Yahweh had been, with the wind in the high grass of the plains of Mamre, and the two men still walking toward Sodom in the valley below.

Then he turned. He returned to his place — to his tent, to Sarah within it, to the work of the evening.

The road back to the tent was longer than the road out had been.
