The three men rose up from Abraham's tent and looked toward Sodom. Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

The Lord did not hide from Abraham that thing which he was about to do.

He said, "Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous, I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me."

The two men with him turned their faces from thence, and went on toward Sodom.

But Abraham stood yet before the Lord.

Abraham drew near.

He said, "Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked? Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city. Wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? That be far from thee to do after this manner. Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?"

And the Lord said, "If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes."

Abraham answered and said, "Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which am but dust and ashes. Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous. Wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five?"

He said, "If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it."

Abraham spake unto him yet again. "Peradventure there shall be forty found there."

"I will not do it for forty's sake."

"Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Peradventure there shall thirty be found there."

"I will not do it, if I find thirty there."

"Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord. Peradventure there shall be twenty found there."

"I will not destroy it for twenty's sake."

"Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once. Peradventure ten shall be found there."

"I will not destroy it for ten's sake."

And the Lord went his way, as soon as he had left communing with Abraham.

Abraham returned unto his place.

The two men had gone on toward Sodom while Abraham was speaking. The road back to the place where his tent stood was longer than the road out had been.
