A great woman of Shunem urged Elisha to eat bread at her house, and as often as he passed by he turned in there to eat. She said to her husband, "This is a holy man of God who passes by us continually. Let us make a small chamber on the wall, and set for him a bed, a table, a chair, and a lamp."

So they made the chamber, and Elisha came and turned in there. One day he said to Gehazi his servant, "What is to be done for this woman?" Gehazi answered, "She has no son, and her husband is old." Elisha called her, and she stood in the door. He said to her, "At this season, when the time comes around, you shall embrace a son." She answered, "No, my lord, do not lie to your handmaid."

Yet the woman conceived and bore a son at the season the next year, as Elisha had said.

When the child was grown, he went out to his father in the field. He said to him, "My head, my head." His father told a servant to carry him to his mother. The boy sat on her knees till noon, and then he died. She went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and she shut the door and went out.

She saddled the donkey and rode to Mount Carmel. When Elisha saw her coming from afar, he sent Gehazi to meet her. But the woman came to Elisha and caught hold of his feet. Gehazi came near to thrust her away, but Elisha said, "Let her alone, for her soul is troubled within her, and the Lord has hidden it from me."

The woman said, "Did I desire a son of my lord? Did I not say, do not deceive me?"

Elisha sent Gehazi ahead with his staff to lay it on the face of the child. But the mother said, "As the Lord lives, I will not leave you." So Elisha arose and followed her. Gehazi went on ahead and laid the staff on the child, but there was no voice and no hearing.

When Elisha came into the house, the child lay dead upon his bed. He went in and shut the door upon them both, and prayed to the Lord. Then he lay upon the child, and put his mouth on his mouth, and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands. As he stretched himself upon the boy, the flesh of the child grew warm.

He rose and walked once in the house, and then went up and stretched himself upon the child a second time. The child sneezed seven times, and the boy opened his eyes.

Then Elisha called the woman. When she came in, he said, "Take up your son." She fell at his feet and bowed to the ground. Then she took up her son and went out.
