There was a great woman of Shunem who constrained Elisha to eat bread, and as oft as he passed by, he turned in thither. She said unto her husband, "Behold now, I perceive that this is an holy man of God, which passeth by us continually. Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall; and let us set for him there a bed, and a table, and a stool, and a candlestick."

So they made the chamber, and Elisha came and turned in thither. And it came to pass on a day that he said to Gehazi his servant, "What then is to be done for her?" Gehazi answered, "Verily she hath no child, and her husband is old." Elisha called her, and she stood in the door. He said unto her, "About this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son." She answered, "Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thine handmaid."

Yet the woman conceived, and bare a son at that season that Elisha had said unto her.

When the child was grown, it fell on a day that he went out to his father in the field. He said unto his father, "My head, my head." His father said to a lad, "Carry him to his mother." The child sat on her knees till noon, and then died. She went up, and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and shut the door upon him, and went out.

She saddled an ass, and rode unto mount Carmel. When Elisha saw her afar off, he sent Gehazi to meet her. But the woman came to Elisha, and caught him by the feet. Gehazi came near to thrust her away, but Elisha said, "Let her alone; for her soul is vexed within her: and the Lord hath hid it from me."

The woman said, "Did I desire a son of my lord? did I not say, Do not deceive me?"

Elisha sent Gehazi on before with his staff to lay it upon the face of the child. But the mother said, "As the Lord liveth, I will not leave thee." And Elisha arose, and followed her. Gehazi went on before, and laid the staff upon the child, but there was neither voice, nor hearing.

When Elisha was come into the house, behold, the child lay dead upon his bed. He went in, and shut the door upon them twain, and prayed unto the Lord. Then he went up, and lay upon the child, and put his mouth upon his mouth, and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands. As he stretched himself upon the child, the flesh of the child waxed warm.

He returned, and walked in the house once; and went up, and stretched himself upon him. The child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes.

Then Elisha called the woman. When she was come in unto him, he said, "Take up thy son." Then she went in, and fell at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground, and took up her son, and went out.
