The days of David came near that he should die, and he commanded Solomon his son. “I am going the way of all the earth,” he said. “You be strong therefore, and show yourself a man.” Solomon was to keep the instruction of Yahweh his God, to walk in his ways and keep his statutes, his commandments, his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of Moses, that he might prosper in all that he did and wherever he turned himself. Then Yahweh would establish the word he had spoken concerning David: if his children were careful of their way, to walk before him in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there would not fail him a man on the throne of Israel.

David also charged Solomon concerning Joab the son of Zeruiah, who had killed the two captains of the armies of Israel, Abner the son of Ner and Amasa the son of Jether, shedding the blood of war in peace and putting the blood of war on the sash around his waist and the sandals on his feet. Solomon was to act according to his wisdom and not let Joab’s gray head go down to Sheol in peace. But to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, Solomon was to show kindness and let them be among those who ate at his table, for they had come to David when he fled from Absalom.

There was also Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite of Bahurim, who had cursed David with a grievous curse in the day he went to Mahanaim, but who had come down to meet him at the Jordan, where David swore to him by Yahweh, “I will not put you to death with the sword.” Solomon was not to hold him guiltless. “For you are a wise man,” David said, “and you will know what you ought to do to him, and you shall bring his gray head down to Sheol with blood.”

David slept with his fathers and was buried in David’s city. The days that David reigned over Israel were forty years: he reigned seven years in Hebron, and he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem. Solomon sat on the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was firmly established.
