When King Agrippa came into the audience hall with Bernice, Festus the governor was already seated. The chief captains and the principal men of the city had gathered with them, and the hall was filled with their voices. Then Festus commanded that Paul be brought in, and the prisoner stood before them in his chains.

Agrippa said to Paul, "You may speak for yourself." So Paul stretched out his hand and began his defense.

"I count myself happy, King Agrippa, to make my defense before you today," he said. "I have lived as a Pharisee from my youth, and I now stand on trial for the hope of the promise that God made to our fathers."

Paul told them how he had once persecuted the followers of Jesus, even punishing them in the synagogues. He told how he had set out for Damascus with letters from the high priest, and how on the road he had seen a light from heaven brighter than the sun.

He said he heard a voice from heaven. The voice said, "Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?" Paul answered, "Who are you, Lord?" And the Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting."

He continued, "I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision." He had declared the message first at Damascus, then at Jerusalem. He preached throughout Judea, and also to the Gentiles, urging them all to repent and turn to God. "For this cause," he said, "the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me."

While Paul was still making his defense, Festus interrupted him with a loud voice. "Paul, you are insane," he cried. "Your great learning is driving you mad."

But Paul said, "I am not insane, most excellent Festus. I speak words of truth and reasonableness." Then he turned to the king. "King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe."

Agrippa said to Paul, "With a little persuasion you would make me a Christian." Paul answered, "I pray to God that whether with little or with much, not only you, but also all who hear me today might become such as I am, except for these bonds."

Then the king rose. The governor and Bernice rose also, and those who sat with them. When they had withdrawn from the hall, they spoke to one another, "This man does nothing worthy of death." And Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar."
