When king Agrippa came into the audience hall with Bernice, Festus the governor was already set down. The chief captains and the principal men of the city were gathered with them, and the hall was filled with their voices. Then Festus commanded that Paul be brought in, and the prisoner stood before them in his chains.

Agrippa said unto Paul, "Thou art permitted to speak for thyself." So Paul stretched forth his hand and began his defence.

"I think myself happy, king Agrippa, that I shall make my defence before thee this day," he said. "I have lived a Pharisee from my youth, and I now stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made of God unto our fathers."

Paul told them how he had once persecuted them that followed Jesus, and had punished them in the synagogues. He told how he had set forth unto Damascus with letters from the high priest, and how in the way he had beheld a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun.

He said he heard a voice from heaven. The voice said, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Paul answered, "Who art thou, Lord?" And the Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest."

He continued, "I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision." He had shewed the message first at Damascus, then at Jerusalem. He preached throughout all the coasts of Judaea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn unto God. "For these causes," he said, "the Jews caught me in the temple, and went about to kill me."

While Paul was yet speaking in his defence, Festus brake in with a loud voice. "Paul, thou art beside thyself," he cried. "Much learning doth make thee mad."

But Paul said, "I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forth the words of truth and soberness." Then he turned unto the king. "King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest."

Agrippa said unto Paul, "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian." Paul answered, "I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds."

Then the king arose. The governor and Bernice arose also, and they that sat with them. And when they were gone aside out of the hall, they spake among themselves, saying, "This man doeth nothing worthy of death." And Agrippa said unto Festus, "This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar."
