King Agrippa came into the audience hall with Bernice, and the chief captains and the principal men of the city stood as they entered. The room had been arranged for hearing. Festus the governor was already set down. Servants moved along the walls with quiet feet. When the king and his sister had taken their places, the doors at the far end opened, and the prisoner was led in.

Paul stood before them in his chains. The iron at his wrists made a small sound when he moved. The hall went quiet.

Agrippa looked upon him. "Thou art permitted to speak for thyself."

Paul stretched forth his hand. The chain ran a little way along his forearm and stopped. He began.

"I think myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shall answer for myself this day before thee touching all the things whereof I am accused of the Jews, especially because I know thee to be expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews. Wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently."

He spake of his youth among his own nation. He spake of his life as a Pharisee, after the most straitest sect of his religion. He said the thing for which he was judged was the hope of the promise made of God unto the fathers. He looked steadfastly upon the king as he spake.

Then he spake of what he had done before.

"I verily thought with myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. Many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests. And when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them. I punished them oft in the synagogues. I compelled them to blaspheme. Being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities."

The hall listened. Bernice did not move. A chief captain near the wall shifted his weight from one foot to the other.

"Whereupon as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests, at midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed with me."

He paused. The room held still.

"And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, 'Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.' And I said, 'Who art thou, Lord?' And he said, 'I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness, delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light.'"

Paul lowered his hand a moment, then lifted it again.

"Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision. I shewed it first unto them of Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judaea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God. For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple, and went about to kill me. Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come — that Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should shew light unto the people, and to the Gentiles."

Festus rose half from his chair. His voice brake across the hall.

"Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad."

Paul turned unto him. He did not lift his voice.

"I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forth the words of truth and soberness. For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely. This thing was not done in a corner."

He turned then unto Agrippa. His chained hand fell back unto his side. The room narrowed unto two men.

"King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest."

Agrippa's mouth tightened. He gave a half smile that did not reach his eyes.

"Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian?"

"I would to God," Paul said, "that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds."

The chain stirred at his wrist as he lowered his arm.

The king arose. The governor arose. Bernice arose. They that sat with them arose. They withdrew from the hall together. In the corridor beyond, away from the prisoner's hearing, the chief captains spake among themselves.

"This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds."

Agrippa stopped, and looked upon Festus, and spake quietly.

"This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar."

The doors closed behind them, and the hall fell still.
