After these things, and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib king of Assyria came and entered into Judah. He encamped against the fenced cities and thought to win them for himself. When Hezekiah saw that he was come and was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains without the city. Much people gathered together and stopped all the fountains, saying, “Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water?”

Hezekiah strengthened himself. He built up all the wall that was broken, raised it up to the towers with another wall without, and made darts and shields in abundance. He set captains of war over the people, gathered them in the street of the gate of the city, and spake comfortably to them: “Be strong and courageous, be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude that is with him: for there be more with us than with him: with him is an arm of flesh; but with us is the Lord our God to help us, and to fight our battles.” The people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.

After this Sennacherib, while he laid siege against Lachish, sent his servants to Jerusalem with words for Hezekiah and for all Judah. Did not Hezekiah persuade them to die by famine and by thirst, saying that the Lord their God should deliver them? Had not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem to worship before one altar, and burn incense upon it? His servants spake yet more against the Lord God and against his servant Hezekiah. Sennacherib wrote also letters to rail on the Lord God of Israel, saying that as the gods of the nations had not delivered their people, so should not the God of Hezekiah deliver his people. His servants cried with a loud voice in the Jews’ speech unto the people of Jerusalem on the wall, to affright them and to trouble them, and they spake against the God of Jerusalem as against the gods of the people of the earth, the work of the hands of man.

Hezekiah the king and the prophet Isaiah prayed and cried to heaven. The Lord sent an angel which cut off all the mighty men of valour, the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of Assyria, and Sennacherib returned with shame of face to his own land. When he was come into the house of his god, they that came forth of his own bowels slew him there with the sword. Thus the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib and from the hand of all other. Many brought gifts unto the Lord to Jerusalem, and presents to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that he was magnified in the sight of all nations from thenceforth.
