After these things and this faithfulness, Sennacherib king of Assyria came and entered into Judah. He encamped against the fortified cities and intended to win them for himself. When Hezekiah saw that he had come and was planning to fight against Jerusalem, he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the springs outside the city. Many people gathered and stopped all the springs, saying, “Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find abundant water?”

Hezekiah took courage. He built up all the wall that was broken down, raised it up to the towers with the other wall outside, and made weapons and shields in abundance. He set captains of war over the people, gathered them in the wide place at the gate of the city, and spoke encouragingly to them: “Be strong and courageous. Don’t be afraid or dismayed because of the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude who is with him; for there is a greater one with us than with him. An arm of flesh is with him, but Yahweh our God is with us to help us and to fight our battles.” The people rested themselves on the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.

Afterward Sennacherib, while attacking Lachish, sent his servants to Jerusalem with words for Hezekiah and for all Judah. Was not Hezekiah persuading them to die by famine and thirst, saying that Yahweh their God would deliver them? Had not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem to worship before one altar and burn incense on it? His servants spoke yet more against Yahweh God and against his servant Hezekiah. Sennacherib also wrote letters insulting Yahweh, the God of Israel, saying that as the gods of the nations had not delivered their people, so the God of Hezekiah would not deliver his people. His servants called out with a loud voice in the Jews’ language to the people of Jerusalem on the wall, to frighten them and trouble them, and they spoke of the God of Jerusalem as of the gods of the peoples of the earth, the work of men’s hands.

Hezekiah the king and Isaiah the prophet prayed and cried to heaven. Yahweh sent an angel who cut off all the mighty men of valor, the leaders, and the captains in the camp of the king of Assyria, and Sennacherib returned with shame of face to his own land. When he came into the house of his god, those who came out of his own body killed him there with the sword. Thus Yahweh saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib and from the hand of all others. Many brought gifts to Yahweh to Jerusalem, and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations from then on.
