Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old. She died in Kirjath-arba, which is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. Abraham came to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her.

Then Abraham stood up from before his dead and spake unto the sons of Heth. He called himself a stranger and a sojourner among them and asked for a possession of a buryingplace, that he might bury his dead out of his sight.

The children of Heth called Abraham a mighty prince among them. They invited him to choose from their sepulchres, saying that none would withhold his sepulchre from him. Abraham stood and bowed himself before the people of the land.

He asked them to intreat Ephron the son of Zohar for him. Abraham named the cave of Machpelah at the end of Ephron’s field and asked that Ephron give it to him for as much money as it was worth, as a possession for a buryingplace.

Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth. In the audience of all who went in at the gate of his city, Ephron answered Abraham. He offered Abraham the field and the cave therein in the presence of his people and told him to bury his dead.

Abraham bowed again before the people. Speaking unto Ephron in their audience, he asked Ephron to take money for the field, and then he would bury Sarah there. Ephron answered that the land was worth four hundred shekels of silver and again told Abraham to bury his dead.

Abraham hearkened unto Ephron. In the audience of the sons of Heth, he weighed the silver Ephron had named: four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.

The transfer included Ephron’s field in Machpelah before Mamre, the cave therein, and all the trees within the borders round about. These were made sure unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth and all who entered the city gate.

Afterward, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre, the same being Hebron, in Canaan. The sons of Heth made the field and the cave therein sure unto Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace.
