The Lord spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt. “Let the children of Israel also keep the passover at his appointed season,” he said. “In the fourteenth day of this month, at even, ye shall keep it in his appointed season: according to all the rites of it, and according to all the ceremonies thereof, shall ye keep it.”

Moses spake unto the children of Israel, that they should keep the passover, and they kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month at even in the wilderness of Sinai: according to all that the Lord commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel.

But there were certain men, who were defiled by the dead body of a man, that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day. “We are defiled by the dead body of a man,” those men said: “wherefore are we kept back, that we may not offer an offering of the Lord in his appointed season among the children of Israel?”

Moses said unto them, “Stand still, and I will hear what the Lord will command concerning you.”

And the Lord spake unto Moses, that he should speak unto the children of Israel, saying, “If any man of you or of your posterity shall be unclean by reason of a dead body, or be in a journey afar off, yet he shall keep the passover unto the Lord. The fourteenth day of the second month at even they shall keep it, and eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs. They shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break any bone of it: according to all the ordinances of the passover they shall keep it.”

But the man that was clean, and was not in a journey, and forbare to keep the passover, even the same soul should be cut off from among his people: because he brought not the offering of the Lord in his appointed season, that man should bear his sin.

If a stranger should sojourn among them, and would keep the passover unto the Lord, according to the ordinance of the passover, and according to the manner thereof, so should he do. “Ye shall have one ordinance,” said the Lord, “both for the stranger, and for him that was born in the land.”
