Korah the Levite, with Dathan and Abiram and two hundred fifty leaders of Israel, men of renown, rose up against Moses and Aaron. "You take too much on yourselves," they said. "The whole congregation is holy, every one of them, and Yahweh is among them. Why do you lift yourselves up above the assembly of Yahweh?"

When Moses heard it, he fell on his face. Then he said to Korah, "In the morning Yahweh will show who is his and who is holy. Take censers, put fire and incense in them, and bring them before Yahweh tomorrow. The man Yahweh chooses will be the holy one." To the Levites he said, "Is it a small thing that God has set you apart to serve at his tabernacle? And now you seek the priesthood as well? It is against Yahweh that you have gathered."

Moses sent for Dathan and Abiram, but they would not come. "You brought us out of a land flowing with milk and honey to kill us in the wilderness," they said, "and now you make yourself a prince over us. We will not come up."

The next day they all stood with their censers at the door of the tent, and the glory of Yahweh appeared to the whole congregation. Yahweh said, "Separate yourselves from this congregation, that I may consume them at once." But Moses and Aaron fell on their faces. "Will you be angry with the whole congregation," they said, "when one man sins?"

So Yahweh told Moses to warn the people away from the tents of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. They drew back. Dathan and Abiram came out and stood with their wives and children at the doors of their tents. Then Moses said, "By this you will know that Yahweh has sent me, and that it was not my own idea. If these men die an ordinary death, then Yahweh has not sent me. But if the ground opens its mouth and swallows them alive, you will know that they have despised Yahweh."

As soon as he finished speaking, the ground under them split apart. The earth opened its mouth and swallowed them, their households, and everything they had, and they went down alive into Sheol. The earth closed over them. All Israel around them fled at their cry, saying, "The earth might swallow us too!" And fire came out from Yahweh and consumed the two hundred fifty men who had offered the incense.
