Now Korah the son of Izhar, a Levite, with Dathan and Abiram and two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, men of renown, gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. Ye take too much upon you, they said, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them: wherefore lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord?

And when Moses heard it, he fell upon his face. And he said unto Korah, To morrow the Lord will shew who are his, and who is holy. Take censers, and put fire and incense in them before the Lord; and the man whom the Lord doth choose, he shall be holy. Is it a small thing, ye sons of Levi, that God hath separated you to do the service of his tabernacle? and seek ye the priesthood also?

Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram; but they said, We will not come up. Thou hast brought us out of a land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, and wouldest make thyself altogether a prince over us.

On the morrow they stood with their censers at the door of the tabernacle, and the glory of the Lord appeared unto all the congregation. And the Lord said, Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment. But Moses and Aaron fell upon their faces, and said, O God, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with all the congregation?

Then the Lord bade the people get up from about the tents of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. And they departed. But Dathan and Abiram came out and stood in the door of their tents, with their wives and their sons and their little children. And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that the Lord hath sent me, and that I have not done it of mine own mind. If these men die the common death of all men, then the Lord hath not sent me. But if the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, and they go down quick into the pit, then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the Lord.

And it came to pass, as he made an end of speaking, that the ground clave asunder that was under them. And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses, and all their goods, and they went down alive into the pit, and the earth closed upon them. And all Israel that were round about them fled at the cry of them, saying, Lest the earth swallow us up also. And there came out a fire from the Lord, and consumed the two hundred and fifty men that offered incense.
