Samuel was old, and he made his sons judges over Israel. Joel was the name of the firstborn, and Abiah the name of the second, and they judged in Beersheba. But they walked not in the ways of their father. They turned aside after lucre. They took bribes, and perverted judgment.

So all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came up to Samuel at Ramah.

"Behold, thou art old," they said, "and thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us, like all the nations."

Their asking displeased Samuel, and he brought the matter before the Lord in prayer.

And the Lord answered him. "Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee. For they have not rejected thee. They have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. According to all the works which they have done since the day I brought them up out of Egypt, forsaking me and serving other gods, so do they also unto thee. Hearken unto their voice. Howbeit protest solemnly unto them, and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them."

So Samuel spoke to the people that had asked of him a king, and he kept back none of the words of the Lord.

"This will be the manner of your king," he said. "He will take your sons. He will set them to his chariots and his horsemen, and some shall run before them. He will put them to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war. He will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and cooks, and bakers. He will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards — the best of them — and give them to his servants. He will take the tenth of your seed, and the tenth of your sheep. He will take your menservants and your maidservants, and your goodliest young men, and put them to his work. And ye shall be his servants.

"And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king whom ye have chosen. And the Lord will not hear you in that day."

The people would not hear him.

"Nay," they said, "but we will have a king over us, that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles."

Samuel listened to all that the people said, and he rehearsed it again in the ears of the Lord.

"Hearken unto their voice," the Lord said, "and make them a king."

Then Samuel said unto the men of Israel, "Go ye every man unto his city."
