The cloud had filled the temple in the days before. The priests had brought the ark into the most holy place under the wings of the great cherubim of olive wood, and the offerings had gone up day after day, and Solomon had stood and kneeled before the brazen altar in the inner court — his hands spread up toward the heavens — and prayed for the people he was about to bless. The prayer had been long. The fire of the altar had burned down low while he prayed. And then the king arose.

And it came to pass, that when Solomon had made an end of praying all this prayer and supplication unto the Lord, he arose from before the altar of the Lord, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread up to heaven.

And he stood, and blessed all the congregation of Israel with a loud voice, saying,

"Blessed be the Lord, that hath given rest unto his people Israel, according to all that he promised: there hath not failed one word of all his good promise, which he promised by the hand of Moses his servant.

The Lord our God be with us, as he was with our fathers: let him not leave us, nor forsake us;

That he may incline our hearts unto him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his judgments, which he commanded our fathers.

And let these my words, wherewith I have made supplication before the Lord, be nigh unto the Lord our God day and night, that he may maintain the cause of his servant, and the cause of his people Israel, as the matter shall require;

That all the people of the earth may know that the Lord himself is God. There is none else.

"Let your heart therefore be perfect with the Lord our God, to walk in his statutes, and to keep his commandments, as at this day."

And the king lowered his hands. The congregation of Israel stood before him in the great court — the elders at the fore, the heads of the houses behind them, and behind those the men and women of the city, and behind those again the people of the outlying districts who were come up unto the dedication. The trumpets of the priests waited in their hands; the oxen and sheep stood ready for the offering; and the words "there hath not failed one word of all his good promise" tarried in the air over the court of the new house.
