Josiah the son of Amon was eight years old when he was made king in Jerusalem, in the days after his father had been slain in the palace by his servants. The child was crowned of the people of the land in the place where his great-grandfather Hezekiah had once stood. He grew up in the palace and in the courts of the temple. The high places of Manasseh his grandfather had been left standing through the brief reign of Amon; the groves yet stood in the courts of the temple; the bones of the priests of the high places yet rested in their sepulchres. And in the years that followed, the child began to seek God earlier than other kings had sought.

Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem one and thirty years.

And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David his father, and declined neither to the right hand, nor to the left.

For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David his father: and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and the groves, and the carved images, and the molten images.

And they brake down the altars of Baalim in his presence; and the images, that were on high above them, he cut down: and the groves, and the carved images, and the molten images, he brake in pieces, and made dust of them, and strowed it upon the graves of them that had sacrificed unto them.

And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars, and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem.

And so did he in the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon, even unto Naphtali, with their mattocks round about.

And when he had broken down the altars and the groves, and had beaten the graven images into powder, and cut down all the idols throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem.

And the king came again into Jerusalem after the long going-through of the country. The dust of the broken altars had been strowed over the graves of them that had sacrificed at the high places; the high places themselves were thrown down; the trees of the groves were felled; and the young king that had begun seeking the Lord at sixteen years of age returned through the gate of the city in the twelfth year of his reign, with the work of the reformation but begun in the courts above the city of Jerusalem.
