Peter was come up from Joppa unto Caesarea with the six brethren from the seaside, having been three times told by the vision of the great sheet let down out of heaven not to call common what God had cleansed. Cornelius the centurion of the Italian band had gathered his kinsmen and his near friends in his house and had met Peter at the door and fallen at his feet — and Peter had lifted him up, saying, "Stand up; I myself also am a man." They went in together. The company in the room waited. And Cornelius spake first.

And Cornelius said, "Four days ago I was fasting until this hour; and at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and, behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,

And said, 'Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God.

Send therefore to Joppa, and call hither Simon, whose surname is Peter; he is lodged in the house of one Simon a tanner by the sea side: who, when he cometh, shall speak unto thee.'

Immediately therefore I sent unto thee; and thou hast well done that thou art come. Now therefore are we all here present before God, to hear all things that are commanded thee of God."

Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, "Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons:

But in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him.

The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ — he is Lord of all —

ye yourselves know what was done, which was published throughout all Judaea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached;

even Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him.

And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the land of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they slew and hanged on a tree.

Him God raised up the third day, and shewed him openly,

not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before of God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead.

And he commanded us to preach unto the people, and to testify that it is he which was ordained of God to be the Judge of quick and dead.

To him give all the prophets witness, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins."

While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word.

And they of the circumcision which believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Ghost.

For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God.

Then answered Peter,

"Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?"

And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then prayed they him to tarry certain days.

And the company of Cornelius sat with Peter and the brethren of Joppa in the house after the baptism, beseeching the apostle to tarry yet certain days more, with the tidings of what had been done that afternoon still settling among them in the warm room above the haven.
