Peter had come up from Joppa to Caesarea with the six brothers from the seaside, having been three times told by the vision of the great sheet let down out of heaven not to call common what God had cleansed. Cornelius the centurion of the Italian Cohort had gathered his kinsmen and his close friends in his house and had met Peter at the door and fallen at his feet — and Peter had lifted him up, "Stand up. I myself am also a man." They had gone inside together. The company in the room was waiting. And Cornelius spoke first.

Cornelius said, "Four days ago, I was fasting until this hour, and at the ninth hour, I prayed in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,

and said, 'Cornelius, your prayer is heard, and your gifts to the needy are remembered in the sight of God.

Send therefore to Joppa, and summon Simon, who is also called Peter. He lodges in the house of a tanner named Simon, by the seaside. When he comes, he will speak to you.'

Therefore I sent to you at once, and it was good of you to come. Now therefore we are all here present in the sight of God to hear all things that have been commanded you by God."

Peter opened his mouth and said, "Truly I perceive that God doesn't show favoritism;

but in every nation he who fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.

The word which he sent to the children of Israel, preaching good news of peace by Jesus Christ—he is Lord of all—

you yourselves know what happened, which was proclaimed throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached;

even Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.

We are witnesses of everything he did both in the country of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they also killed, hanging him on a tree.

God raised him up the third day, and gave him to be revealed,

not to all the people, but to witnesses who were chosen before by God, to us, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.

He commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that this is he who is appointed by God as the Judge of the living and the dead.

All the prophets testify about him, that through his name everyone who believes in him will receive remission of sins."

While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all those who heard the word.

They of the circumcision who believed were amazed, as many as came with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was also poured out on the Gentiles.

For they heard them speaking in other languages and magnifying God.

Then Peter answered,

"Can anyone forbid these people from being baptized with water? They have received the Holy Spirit just like us."

He commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to stay some days.

And the company of Cornelius sat with Peter and the brothers from Joppa in the house after the baptism, asking the apostle to stay some days more, with the news of what had been done that afternoon still settling among them in the warm room above the harbor.
