The famine was sore in the land. When the corn brought out of Egypt was eaten up, the father of the brethren said, “Go again, buy us a little food.” But Judah reminded him that the man did solemnly protest unto them, “Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you.” If their father would send Benjamin, they would go down; if not, they would not go. Israel asked wherefore they had dealt so ill with him as to tell the man they had yet a brother. They answered that the man asked them straitly of their state and of their kindred, and they told him according to the tenor of these words.

Judah said, “Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die.” He himself would be surety for Benjamin; of his hand Israel should require him. Then Israel bade them carry down the man a present of the best fruits in the land—a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts, and almonds—with double money in hand, and the money that was brought again in the mouth of their sacks. “And God Almighty give you mercy before the man,” he said. “If I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved.”

The men took the present, the double money, and Benjamin, and stood before Joseph. When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he told the ruler of his house to bring the men home and make ready, for they should dine with him at noon. The men were afraid when they were brought into Joseph’s house, and at the door they told the steward of the money returned in their sacks. “Peace be to you, fear not,” he said. “Your God, and the God of your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money.” He brought Simeon out unto them, gave them water for their feet, and gave their asses provender.

When Joseph came home, they brought him the present and bowed themselves to him to the earth. He asked them of their welfare and of their father, and they answered that his servant their father was in good health and yet alive. When he lifted up his eyes and saw Benjamin, his mother’s son, he said, “God be gracious unto thee, my son.” Then Joseph made haste, for his bowels did yearn upon his brother, and he entered into his chamber and wept there. He washed his face, went out, refrained himself, and said, “Set on bread.”

They set on for him by himself and for the brethren by themselves, and the men sat before him in order, the firstborn according to his birthright and the youngest according to his youth, and the men marvelled one at another. Messes were sent unto them from before him, but Benjamin’s mess was five times so much as any of theirs. And they drank, and were merry with him.
