The famine was severe in the land. When the grain brought out of Egypt was eaten up, the father of the brothers said, “Go again, buy us a little more food.” But Judah reminded him that the man had solemnly warned them, “You shall not see my face, unless your brother is with you.” If their father would send Benjamin, they would go down; if not, they would not go. Israel asked why they had treated him so badly by telling the man they had another brother. They answered that the man had asked directly about themselves and their relatives, and they had only answered his questions.

Judah said, “Send the boy with me, and we’ll get up and go, so that we may live, and not die.” He himself would be collateral for Benjamin; from his hand Israel could require him. Then Israel told them to carry down a present from the choice fruits of the land—a little balm, a little honey, spices and myrrh, nuts, and almonds—with double money in hand, and the money that had been returned in their sacks. “May God Almighty give you mercy before the man,” he said. “If I am bereaved of my children, I am bereaved.”

The men took the present, the double money, and Benjamin, and stood before Joseph. When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he told the steward of his house to bring the men in and prepare an animal, for they would dine with him at noon. The men were afraid when they were brought to Joseph’s house, and at the door they explained to the steward about the money returned in their sacks. “Peace be to you. Don’t be afraid,” he said. “Your God, and the God of your father, has given you treasure in your sacks. I received your money.” He brought Simeon out to them, gave them water for their feet, and fed their donkeys.

When Joseph came home, they brought him the present and bowed down to the earth before him. He asked of their welfare and of their father, and they answered that his servant their father was well and still alive. When he lifted up his eyes and saw Benjamin, his mother’s son, he said, “God be gracious to you, my son.” Then Joseph hurried out, for his heart yearned over his brother, and he went into his room and wept there. He washed his face, came out, controlled himself, and said, “Serve the meal.”

They served him by himself and the brothers by themselves, and the men were seated before him in order, the firstborn according to his birthright and the youngest according to his youth, and they marveled with one another. Portions were sent to them from before him, but Benjamin’s portion was five times as much as any of theirs. They drank, and were merry with him.
