There happened to be there a wicked fellow, Sheba the son of Bichri, a Benjamite. He blew the trumpet: “We have no portion in David, neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his tents, Israel!” So all the men of Israel went up from following David and followed Sheba, but the men of Judah joined their king, from the Jordan to Jerusalem. When David came to his house at Jerusalem, he put the ten concubines he had left keeping the house in custody and provided for them, but did not go in to them; they lived as widows until their death.

The king told Amasa to call the men of Judah together within three days, but Amasa stayed longer than the set time. David said to Abishai, “Now Sheba the son of Bichri will do us more harm than Absalom did. Take your lord’s servants and pursue after him, lest he get himself fortified cities, and escape out of our sight.” Joab’s men went out with the Cherethites, the Pelethites, and all the mighty men to pursue him.

At the great stone in Gibeon, Amasa met them. Joab wore his apparel of war with a sword sheathed at his waist, and as he went along it fell out. “Is it well with you, my brother?” Joab said, and took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him. But Amasa took no heed to the sword in Joab’s hand, and Joab struck him with it and did not strike again, and Amasa died. Amasa lay in his blood in the middle of the highway until a man carried him into the field and cast a garment over him, and the people went on after Joab.

Sheba went through all the tribes of Israel to Abel of Beth Maacah. Joab’s forces besieged him there, cast up a mound against the city, and battered the wall. Then a wise woman cried out of the city for Joab to come near. “Are you Joab?” she asked. “I am,” he answered. They used to say in old times, she said, “They shall surely ask counsel at Abel,” and so they settled a matter; she was among the peaceable and faithful in Israel. “You seek to destroy a city and a mother in Israel. Why will you swallow up Yahweh’s inheritance?”

Joab answered, “Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or destroy.” A man of the hill country of Ephraim, Sheba by name, had lifted up his hand against the king, against David. “Just deliver him, and I will depart from the city.” The woman said, “Behold, his head will be thrown to you over the wall.” Then she went to all the people in her wisdom; they cut off Sheba’s head and threw it out to Joab. He blew the trumpet, and they dispersed from the city, every man to his tent. Then Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king.
