There happened to be there a man of Belial, Sheba the son of Bichri, a Benjamite. He blew a trumpet: “We have no part in David, neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: every man to his tents, O Israel.” So every man of Israel went up from after David and followed Sheba, but the men of Judah clave unto their king, from Jordan to Jerusalem. When David came to his house at Jerusalem, he put the ten concubines he had left keeping the house in ward and fed them, but went not in unto them; they lived as widows unto their death.

The king bade Amasa assemble the men of Judah within three days, but Amasa tarried longer than the set time. David said to Abishai, “Now shall Sheba the son of Bichri do us more harm than did Absalom: take thou thy lord’s servants, and pursue after him, lest he get him fenced cities, and escape us.” Joab’s men went out with the Cherethites, the Pelethites, and all the mighty men to pursue after him.

At the great stone in Gibeon, Amasa went before them. Joab’s garment was girded unto him, with a sword fastened in the sheath thereof, and as he went forth it fell out. “Art thou in health, my brother?” said Joab, and took Amasa by the beard with the right hand to kiss him. But Amasa took no heed to the sword in Joab’s hand, and Joab smote him and struck him not again, and Amasa died. Amasa wallowed in blood in the midst of the highway until a man removed him into the field and cast a cloth upon him, and the people went on after Joab.

Sheba went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel of Beth-maachah. Joab’s men besieged him there, cast up a bank against the city, and battered the wall. Then cried a wise woman out of the city for Joab to come near. “Art thou Joab?” she asked. “I am he,” he answered. They were wont to speak in old time, she said, “They shall surely ask counsel at Abel,” and so they ended the matter; she was one of them that were peaceable and faithful in Israel. “Thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel: why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of the Lord?”

Joab answered, “Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or destroy.” A man of mount Ephraim, Sheba by name, had lifted up his hand against the king, even against David. “Deliver him only, and I will depart from the city.” The woman said, “Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall.” Then she went unto all the people in her wisdom; they cut off Sheba’s head and cast it out to Joab. He blew a trumpet, and they retired from the city, every man to his tent. And Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king.
