Numbers 16:36-50 (WEB)
36 Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
37 “Speak to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning, and scatter the fire away from the camp; for they are holy,
38 even the censers of those who sinned against their own lives. Let them be beaten into plates for a covering of the altar, for they offered them before Yahweh. Therefore they are holy. They shall be a sign to the children of Israel.”
39 Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers which those who were burned had offered; and they beat them out for a covering of the altar,
40 to be a memorial to the children of Israel, to the end that no stranger who isn’t of the offspring of Aaron, would come near to burn incense before Yahweh, that he not be as Korah and as his company; as Yahweh spoke to him by Moses.
41 But on the next day all the congregation of the children of Israel complained against Moses and against Aaron, saying, “You have killed Yahweh’s people!”
42 When the congregation was assembled against Moses and against Aaron, they looked toward the Tent of Meeting. Behold, the cloud covered it, and Yahweh’s glory appeared.
43 Moses and Aaron came to the front of the Tent of Meeting.
44 Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,
45 “Get away from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment!” They fell on their faces.
46 Moses said to Aaron, “Take your censer, put fire from the altar in it, lay incense on it, carry it quickly to the congregation, and make atonement for them; for wrath has gone out from Yahweh! The plague has begun.”
47 Aaron did as Moses said, and ran into the middle of the assembly. The plague had already begun among the people. He put on the incense, and made atonement for the people.
48 He stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.
49 Now those who died by the plague were fourteen thousand seven hundred, in addition to those who died about the matter of Korah.
50 Aaron returned to Moses to the door of the Tent of Meeting, and the plague was stopped.
