After Joseph had been sold into Egypt, Potiphar's wife had falsely accused him, and his master had cast him into the prison where the king's prisoners were bound. Joseph was there in the prison, and the keeper of the prison committed to his hand all the prisoners who were in the prison.

In those days, the chief cupbearer of the king of Egypt and the chief baker had offended their master. Pharaoh was angry with these two officers, and he put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison where Joseph was bound.

The captain of the guard appointed Joseph to attend to them, and he served them. They were in custody for many days.

They both dreamed a dream in one night, each man his own dream, and each dream had its own meaning. The cupbearer of the king of Egypt and the baker, who were bound in the prison, had each a dream.

Joseph came in to them in the morning and saw them. Behold, they were sad. He asked Pharaoh's officers who were with him in custody in his master's house, "Why do you look so sad today?"

They said to him, "We have dreamed a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it." Joseph said to them, "Don't interpretations belong to God? Please tell it to me."

The chief cupbearer told his dream. He said, "In my dream, behold, a vine was before me, and on the vine were three branches. It was as though it budded, its blossoms shot forth, and its clusters brought forth ripe grapes. Pharaoh's cup was in my hand. I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand."

Joseph said to him, "This is its interpretation. The three branches are three days. Within three more days, Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your office. You will give Pharaoh's cup into his hand. But remember me when it is well with you, and please show kindness to me, and make mention of me to Pharaoh."

It came to pass on the third day that Pharaoh restored the chief cupbearer to his office. Yet the chief cupbearer didn't remember Joseph, but forgot him.
