After Joseph had been sold into Egypt, the wife of Potiphar had falsely accused him, and his master had cast him into the prison where the king's prisoners were bound. Joseph was there in the prison, and the keeper of the prison committed to his hand all the prisoners that were in the prison.

In those days the chief butler of the king of Egypt and the chief baker had offended their lord. Pharaoh was wroth against these two of his officers, and he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison wherein Joseph was bound.

And the captain of the guard charged Joseph to attend upon them, and he served them. And they continued a season in ward.

And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream. The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison, dreamed each man his dream.

And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and beheld them, and lo, they were sad. And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of his lord's house, saying, "Wherefore look ye so sadly to day?"

And they said unto him, "We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it." And Joseph said unto them, "Do not interpretations belong to God? tell me them, I pray you."

And the chief butler told his dream. He said, "In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; and in the vine were three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes. And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand."

And Joseph said unto him, "This is the interpretation of it: The three branches are three days: Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand. But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh."

And it came to pass the third day, that Pharaoh restored the chief butler unto his butlership again. Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.
