Naomi her mother in law said unto Ruth, "My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee? And now is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou wast? Behold, he winnoweth barley to night in the threshingfloor."

She said, "Wash thyself therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon thee, and get thee down to the floor. But make not thyself known unto the man, until he shall have done eating and drinking. And it shall be, when he lieth down, that thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie. Then go in, and uncover his feet, and lay thee down. And he will tell thee what thou shalt do."

Ruth said unto her, "All that thou sayest unto me I will do." And she went down unto the floor, and did according to all that her mother in law bade her.

And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn. The night was clear over the threshingfloor, and the lamps of the labourers were gone out.

Then Ruth came softly. She uncovered his feet, and laid her down.

And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was afraid, and turned himself, and behold, a woman lay at his feet. He said, "Who art thou?" And she answered, "I am Ruth thine handmaid: spread therefore thy skirt over thine handmaid; for thou art a near kinsman."

He said, "Blessed be thou of the Lord, my daughter: for thou hast shewed more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, inasmuch as thou followedst not young men, whether poor or rich. And now, my daughter, fear not. I will do to thee all that thou requirest: for all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman."

He said, "And now it is true that I am thy near kinsman: howbeit there is a kinsman nearer than I. Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will perform unto thee the part of a kinsman, well; let him do the kinsman's part. But if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee, then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee, as the Lord liveth."

She lay at his feet until the morning. She rose up before one could know another, for he said, "Let it not be known that a woman came into the floor."
