Naomi her mother-in-law said to Ruth, "My daughter, shall I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you? Now isn't Boaz our kinsman, with whose maidens you were? Behold, he winnows barley tonight at the threshing floor."

She said, "Therefore wash yourself, anoint yourself, put on your best garment, and go down to the threshing floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. When he lies down, mark the place where he lies. Then go in and uncover his feet, and lie down. He will tell you what to do."

Ruth said to her, "All that you say I will do." She went down to the threshing floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law had told her.

When Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. The night was clear over the threshing floor, and the lamps of the workers had gone out.

Then Ruth came softly. She uncovered his feet and lay down.

In the middle of the night the man was startled and turned himself, and behold, a woman lay at his feet. He said, "Who are you?" She answered, "I am Ruth your handmaid. Therefore spread your skirt over your handmaid, for you are a near kinsman."

He said, "Blessed are you by the Lord, my daughter. You have shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, in that you did not follow young men, whether poor or rich. Now, my daughter, do not be afraid. I will do for you all that you say, for all the city of my people knows that you are a worthy woman."

He said, "Now it is true that I am a near kinsman. However, there is a kinsman nearer than I. Stay this night, and in the morning, if he will perform the part of a kinsman for you, well, let him do the kinsman's part. But if he will not perform the part of a kinsman for you, then I will perform the part of a kinsman for you, as the Lord lives."

She lay at his feet until the morning. She rose up before one could discern another, for he said, "Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor."
