All this came upon Nebuchadnezzar the king.

At the end of twelve months, he walked upon the high roof of the royal palace of Babylon. He beheld the city which he had builded.

He spake aloud unto no man, saying, "Is not this great Babylon, that I have built for the house of the kingdom, by the might of my power and for the honour of my majesty?"

While the word was yet in his mouth, a voice came down from heaven.

"O king Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken: The kingdom is departed from thee. Thou shalt be driven from men. Thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. They shall make thee to eat grass as oxen. Seven times shall pass over thee, until thou know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men."

The same hour was the thing fulfilled.

He was driven from men. He went forth from the palace. He went forth from the gardens. He went forth from the city.

He came unto the open field. He did eat grass as the oxen ate it. The dew of heaven wet his body in the night. The sun dried him in the morning. He spake not unto any man.

The first season passed. The second season passed.

His hair began to grow long. His nails began to wax long.

The third season passed. The fourth.

By the fifth season his hair was grown like eagles' feathers. His nails were grown like birds' claws.

The sixth season passed.

At the end of the seventh, he lifted up his eyes unto heaven.

He told it himself afterward, in the testimony which he wrote in the second year of his return —

"I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up mine eyes, and mine understanding returned unto me. I blessed the most High. I praised him that liveth for ever. For his dominion is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom is from generation to generation. The inhabitants of the earth are nothing before him."

His counsellors found him in the field. They brought him again. His majesty returned unto him. His lords sought him again. He was established in his kingdom.

He stood in the palace where he had once boasted. He stood with the field yet in his hair. He stood as one that had learned that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men.
