The hand of the Lord was upon Ezekiel, and he carried him out in the Spirit of the Lord, and set him down in the middle of the valley. The valley was full of bones, and the bones were very many on the floor of the valley, and they were very dry.

The Lord caused Ezekiel to pass by them all around. He saw the bones lying upon the ground, and the wind moved across them, and they did not stir.

The Lord said to him, "Son of man, can these bones live?"

Ezekiel answered, "Lord, the Lord, you know."

The Lord said to him, "Prophesy over these bones, and tell them, 'You dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. The Lord says to these bones, "Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live. I will lay sinews on you, and will bring up flesh on you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live. Then you shall know that I am the Lord."'"

So Ezekiel prophesied as he was commanded. As he prophesied, there was a noise, and behold, an earthquake, and the bones came together, bone to its bone. He looked, and saw that there were sinews on them, and flesh came up, and skin covered them above, but there was no breath in them.

Then the Lord said to him, "Prophesy to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and tell the wind, 'The Lord says, "Come from the four winds, breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live."'"

So Ezekiel prophesied as he was commanded. The breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up on their feet, an exceedingly great army.

The Lord said to Ezekiel, "Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, 'Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost. We are cut off completely.'"

He said, "Therefore prophesy and tell them, 'The Lord says, "Behold, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, my people. I will bring you into the land of Israel."'"

The valley was still around Ezekiel. The wind moved across the place where the bones had lain, and the army stood upon the ground.
