Two weeks of tempest had passed. The ship had been driven by the wind out of Crete across the open sea, the men had eaten nothing for many days, and Paul the prisoner had stood up in the midst of the shipmen and the soldiers and the prisoners and told them that an angel of God had stood beside him in the night, saying that no soul on the ship should be lost — though the vessel would be lost. He had exhorted them to take meat for their strength. And then in the hold of the ship he took the bread.

And when he had thus spoken, he took bread, and gave thanks to God in presence of them all: and when he had broken it, he began to eat.

Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took some meat.

And we were in all in the ship two hundred threescore and sixteen souls.

And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, and cast out the wheat into the sea.

And when it was day, they knew not the land: but they discovered a certain creek with a shore, into the which they were minded, if it were possible, to thrust in the ship.

And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves unto the sea, and loosed the rudder bands, and hoised up the mainsail to the wind, and made toward shore.

And falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground; and the forepart stuck fast, and remained unmoveable, but the hinder part was broken with the violence of the waves.

And the soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim out, and escape.

But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept them from their purpose; and commanded that they which could swim should cast themselves first into the sea, and get to land:

And the rest, some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass, that they escaped all safe to land.

And the two hundred threescore and sixteen men gathered upon the beach of the unknown creek. The forepart of the ship stood fixed in the sand where it had struck; the hinder part lay broken behind it in the surf; planks and broken cargo had been driven up upon the beach with the swimmers and the clingers and the floaters; and not one of the souls of the ship was lost, even as the angel had said in the night unto Paul.
