Two weeks of storm had passed. The ship had been driven by the wind out of Crete across the open sea, the men had eaten nothing for days, and Paul the prisoner had stood up in the midst of the sailors and the soldiers and the prisoners and told them that an angel of God had stood beside him in the night, saying that no soul on the ship would be lost — though the vessel would be lost. He had urged them to take food for their strength. And then in the hold of the ship he took the bread.

When he had said this, and had taken bread, he gave thanks to God in the presence of all, and he broke it, and began to eat.

Then they all cheered up, and they also took food.

In all, we were two hundred seventy-six souls on the ship.

When they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.

When it was day, they didn't recognize the land, but they noticed a certain bay with a beach, and they decided to try to drive the ship onto it.

Casting off the anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time untying the rudder ropes. Hoisting up the foresail to the wind, they made for the beach.

But coming to a place where two seas met, they ran the vessel aground. The bow struck and remained immovable, but the stern began to break up by the violence of the waves.

The soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners, so that none of them would swim out and escape.

But the centurion, desiring to save Paul, stopped them from their purpose, and commanded that those who could swim should throw themselves overboard first to go toward the land;

and the rest should follow, some on planks, and some on other things from the ship. So they all escaped safely to the land.

And the two hundred and seventy-six men gathered on the beach of the unknown bay. The bow of the ship stood fixed in the sand where it had struck; the stern lay broken behind it in the surf; planks and broken cargo had been driven up onto the beach with the swimmers and the clingers and the floaters; and not one of the souls of the ship was lost, as the angel had said in the night to Paul.
