After these things, God tested Abraham. He said, "Abraham!" And Abraham said, "Here I am."

God said, "Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah. Offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains that I will show you."

Abraham rose early in the morning. He saddled his donkey and cut the wood for the burnt offering. He took two of his young men and his son Isaac. They set out toward the place God had told him.

On the third day, Abraham lifted his eyes. He saw the place in the distance. He said to the young men, "Stay here with the donkey. The boy and I will go over there. We will worship, and we will come back to you."

Abraham laid the wood on Isaac his son. He carried the fire and the knife in his own hands. The two of them walked on together.

Isaac spoke. "My father?"

"Here I am, my son."

"I see the fire and the wood. But where is the lamb for the burnt offering?"

Abraham said, "God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son." And the two of them walked on together.

They came to the place. Abraham built an altar and arranged the wood. He bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. Abraham stretched out his hand. He took the knife to kill his son.

The angel of the Lord called to him from heaven. "Abraham! Abraham!"

"Here I am."

"Do not lay your hand on the boy. Do not do anything to him. Now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me."

Abraham lifted his eyes and looked. Behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by his horns. Abraham went and took the ram. He offered it as a burnt offering instead of his son.

Abraham called the name of that place "The Lord Will Provide." As it is said to this day, "On the Lord's mountain, it will be provided."

The angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven. "By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord. Because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son, I will surely bless you. I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sand on the seashore. In your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice."