And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham. He said, "Abraham!" And he said, "Here I am."

And God said, "Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah. Offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I shall tell thee of."

Abraham rose early in the morning. He saddled his ass and clave the wood for the burnt offering. He took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. They went unto the place which God had told him of.

On the third day, Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. He said unto his young men, "Abide ye here with the ass. I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you."

Abraham laid the wood upon Isaac his son. He took the fire and a knife. They went both of them together.

Isaac spake. "My father?"

"Here am I, my son."

"Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?"

Abraham said, "God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering, my son." So they went both of them together.

They came to the place. Abraham built an altar and laid the wood in order. He bound Isaac his son and laid him upon the altar, upon the wood. Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son.

The angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven. "Abraham! Abraham!"

"Here am I."

"Lay not thine hand upon the lad. Do nothing unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me."

Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked. A ram was caught in a thicket by his horns. Abraham took the ram and offered him up in the stead of his son.

Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh. As it is said to this day, "In the mount of the Lord it shall be seen."

The angel called unto Abraham a second time out of heaven. "By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord. Because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, I will bless thee. I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven and as the sand upon the sea shore. In thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice."