When Saul was returned from following the Philistines, it was told him that David was in the wilderness of En-gedi. So he took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek him among the rocks of the wild goats.

By the way he came to the sheepcotes, where there was a cave; and he went in to cover his feet. And David and his men abode within, in the inner parts of the cave.

Now David's men said unto him that this was the day whereof the Lord had spoken, when his enemy should be delivered into his hand, to do with him as he would. So David arose, and privily cut off the skirt of Saul's robe. But afterward his heart smote him, that he had touched the robe of the king at all. The Lord forbid, said he, that I should stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed. And he stayed his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul; and Saul rose up out of the cave, and went his way.

Then David also went out, and cried after him, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed himself with his face to the earth.

Wherefore, said he, dost thou hearken to men that say I seek thy hurt? This day the Lord gave thee into my hand within the cave; and though they bade me slay thee, I spared thee, for I will not put forth my hand against the Lord's anointed. See, my father, the skirt of thy robe in my hand: I took but this, and killed thee not; there is neither evil nor treachery in me, neither have I sinned against thee, though thou huntest my soul to take it. The Lord judge between me and thee. After whom is the king of Israel come out? After a dead dog, after a flea? The Lord therefore be judge between us, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.

When David had made an end of these words, Saul answered him. Is this thy voice, my son David? And he lifted up his voice, and wept. Thou art more righteous than I, said he; for thou hast rewarded me good, but I have rewarded thee evil. This day thou hast proved it: the Lord shut me up in thy hand, and thou wouldest not slay me. What man, finding his enemy thus, would let him go safe away? Yet so hast thou dealt with me. And now I know for a certainty that thou shalt be king indeed, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be made sure in thy hand. Then he asked of David an oath by the Lord, that he would not cut off his seed after him, nor destroy his name out of his father's house.

And David sware unto him. So Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the hold.
