Saul was returned from following the Philistines, and it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi. So Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek him upon the rocks of the wild goats.

He came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave, and Saul went in to cover his feet. And far back in the sides of that same cave, David and his men remained in the shadows.

The men whispered unto David. “Behold the day of which the Lord said, that he would deliver thine enemy into thine hand. Do to him as it shall seem good unto thee.” Then David arose in silence. He came close behind the king. He cut off the skirt of Saul’s robe privily, and slipped back to his men.

And afterward David’s heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul’s skirt. “The Lord forbid that I should do this thing unto my master,” he said, “to stretch forth mine hand against the Lord’s anointed.” So he stayed his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.

Then David also went out, and cried after him, “My lord the king!” And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth. He held up the piece of cloth in his hand. “See the skirt of thy robe. I cut it off, and killed thee not. There is neither evil nor transgression in mine hand, yet thou huntest my soul to take it. The Lord judge between me and thee. But mine hand shall not be upon thee.”

Saul heard the voice, and it broke him. “Is this thy voice, my son David?” And he lifted up his voice, and wept. “Thou art more righteous than I,” he said, “for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil. This day thou hast shewed how thou hast dealt well with me, when the Lord delivered me into thine hand, and thou killedst me not. And now I know well that thou shalt surely be king.”

So David sware unto him that he would not cut off his name after him. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the hold.
