And there came an angel of the Lord, and sat under an oak in Ophrah, that pertained unto Joash the Abiezrite. His son Gideon threshed wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.

The winepress was a low stone basin cut into the hillside. It was not made for threshing. The walls stayed the wind. But a threshing floor sat open to the sky, visible for miles. The Midianites watched for grain. So Gideon laboured in the winepress, swinging the flail in the cramped space. Chaff clung to his arms and face.

And the angel of the Lord said unto him, "The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valour."

And Gideon said, "Oh my lord, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? Where be all his miracles which our fathers told us of? Now the Lord hath forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites."

And the Lord said, "Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent thee?"

And he said, "Wherewith shall I save Israel? My family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house."

And the Lord said, "Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man."

And he said, "If I have found grace in thy sight, shew me a sign. Depart not hence until I bring forth my present."

And he said, "I will tarry until thou come again."

And Gideon went in. He made ready a kid and unleavened cakes. The flesh he put in a basket and the broth in a pot. He brought it out under the oak.

And the angel of God said, "Take the flesh and the cakes, lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth." And he did so.

Then the angel of the Lord put forth the end of the staff in his hand and touched the flesh and the cakes. There rose up fire out of the rock and consumed them. And the angel departed out of his sight.

And Gideon said, "Alas, O Lord God! I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face."

And the Lord said, "Peace be unto thee. Fear not. Thou shalt not die."

Then Gideon built an altar there unto the Lord. He called it Jehovah-shalom — The Lord Is Peace.