The wall stood. Stone upon stone, the breaches had been closed and the gates set in their frames. The work of years had come to its end. Now the day of dedication had arrived in Jerusalem.

At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgivings, and with singing, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and with harps.

The sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both out of the plain around Jerusalem, and from the villages of the Netophathites; also from Beth Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had built themselves villages around Jerusalem.

The priests and the Levites purified themselves; and they purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.

Then I brought up the princes of Judah on the wall, and appointed two great companies who gave thanks and went in procession. One went on the right hand on the wall toward the dung gate; and after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah, and certain of the priests' sons with trumpets, with the musical instruments of David the man of God; and Ezra the scribe was before them.

The other company of those who gave thanks went to meet them, and I after them, with the half of the people, on the wall, above the tower of the furnaces, even to the broad wall; and above the gate of Ephraim, and by the old gate, and by the fish gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hammeah, even to the sheep gate: and they stood still in the gate of the guard.

So stood the two companies of those who gave thanks in God's house, and I, and the half of the rulers with me; and the priests with trumpets, and the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer.

They offered great sacrifices that day, and rejoiced; for God had made them rejoice with great joy; and also the women and the children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off.

And the day went on as the dedication continued. The trumpets did not cease. The cymbals carried. The voices of the children rose with the voices of the singers, and the sound of Jerusalem's joy spread out over the surrounding villages, and out into the hills.
