The wall stood. Stone upon stone, the breaches had been closed and the gates set in their frames. The work of years had come unto its end. Now the day of dedication was come in Jerusalem.

At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgivings, and with singing, with cymbals, psalteries, and with harps.

And the sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both out of the plain country round about Jerusalem, and from the villages of Netophathi; also from the house of Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had builded them villages round about Jerusalem.

And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.

Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, and appointed two great companies of them that gave thanks, and went in procession. The one went on the right hand upon the wall toward the dung gate; and after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah, and certain of the priests' sons with trumpets, with the musical instruments of David the man of God; and Ezra the scribe went before them.

And the other company of them that gave thanks went over against them, and I after them, with the half of the people upon the wall, from beyond the tower of the furnaces even unto the broad wall; and above the gate of Ephraim, and above the old gate, and above the fish gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Meah, even unto the sheep gate: and they stood still in the prison gate.

So stood the two companies of them that gave thanks in the house of God, and I, and the half of the rulers with me; and the priests with trumpets; and the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer.

Also that day they offered great sacrifices, and rejoiced: for God had made them rejoice with great joy: the wives also and the children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off.

And the day went on as the dedication continued. The trumpets did not cease. The cymbals carried. The voices of the children rose with the voices of the singers, and the sound of Jerusalem's joy spread forth over the villages round about, and out into the hills.
