When the things concerning the people of Israel had been told to Ezra, that they had not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands, doing according to their abominations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites, Ezra was greatly distressed. He tore his garment and his robe, and he plucked off the hair of his head and of his beard, and he sat down astonished.

He sat astonished until the evening offering. The lamps in the house of the Lord were lit, and the people came in for the time of prayer.

At the evening offering, Ezra arose from his fasting. He fell on his knees, and spread out his hands to the Lord his God. He prayed before the people who had gathered.

He said, "My God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to you, my God, for our iniquities have increased over our head, and our trespass is grown up to the heavens."

He prayed, "Since the days of our fathers we have been exceedingly guilty until this day. For our iniquities, we, our kings, and our priests, have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to plunder, and to confusion of face, as it is this day."

"Now for a little moment grace has been shown from the Lord our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a nail in his holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and give us a little reviving in our bondage."

"For we are bondservants. Yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended loving kindness to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to revive us, to set up the house of our God, and to repair its ruins, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem."

"Now, our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments. Behold, we are before you in our trespass. No one can stand before you because of this."

The people who had gathered around Ezra wept aloud. The men, the women, and the children all wept with him. The court of the house of God was filled with the sound of weeping, and Ezra continued to confess and pray as the lamps burned through the evening.
