When the things concerning the people of Israel had been told unto Ezra, that they had not separated themselves from the people of the lands, doing according to their abominations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites, Ezra was sore grieved. He rent his garment and his mantle, and plucked off the hair of his head and of his beard, and sat down astonied.

He sat astonied until the evening sacrifice. The lamps in the house of the Lord were kindled, and the people came in for the time of prayer.

At the evening sacrifice, Ezra arose up from his heaviness. He fell upon his knees, and spread out his hands unto the Lord his God. He prayed before the people which were gathered together.

He said, "O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee, my God: for our iniquities are increased over our head, and our trespass is grown up unto the heavens."

He prayed, "Since the days of our fathers have we been in a great trespass unto this day. And for our iniquities have we, our kings, and our priests, been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to a spoil, and to confusion of face, as it is this day."

"And now for a little space grace hath been shewed from the Lord our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a nail in his holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and give us a little reviving in our bondage."

"For we were bondmen; yet our God hath not forsaken us in our bondage, but hath extended mercy unto us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to repair the desolations thereof, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem."

"And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken thy commandments. Behold, we are before thee in our trespasses: for we cannot stand before thee because of this."

The people which were gathered round about Ezra wept very sore. The men, the women, and the children all wept with him. The court of the house of God was filled with the noise of weeping, and Ezra continued to confess and to pray as the lamps burned through the evening.
