King Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah. But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, did hearken unto the words of the Lord, which he spake by the prophet Jeremiah.

Zedekiah sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, “Pray now unto the Lord our God for us.” Jeremiah came in and went out among the people: for they had not put him into prison. Pharaoh’s army was come forth out of Egypt: and when the Chaldeans that besieged Jerusalem heard tidings of them, they departed.

Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah for the king of Judah, that sent to enquire. Pharaoh’s army, said the Lord, which was come forth to help them, should return to Egypt, and the Chaldeans should come again, and fight against this city, and take it, and burn it with fire. They were not to deceive themselves that the Chaldeans should surely depart, for though they had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans, and there remained but wounded men, yet should they rise up every man in his tent, and burn this city with fire.

When the Chaldeans were broken up from Jerusalem, Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin, to separate himself thence in the midst of the people. When he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the ward named Irijah took Jeremiah, saying, “Thou fallest away to the Chaldeans.”

Then said Jeremiah, “It is false; I fall not away to the Chaldeans.” But he hearkened not to him: so Irijah brought him to the princes. The princes were wroth with Jeremiah, and smote him, and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe: for they had made that the prison.

After Jeremiah had remained many days in the dungeon and the cabins, the king sent, and took him out. The king asked him secretly in his house, “Is there any word from the Lord?”

Jeremiah said, “There is: for,” said he, “thou shalt be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon.” Jeremiah said unto the king, “What have I offended against thee, or against thy servants, or against this people, that ye have put me in prison? Where are now your prophets which prophesied unto you, saying, The king of Babylon shall not come against you, nor against this land?” And he besought the king that he would not cause him to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest he die there.

Then Zedekiah commanded, and they committed Jeremiah into the court of the prison, and gave him daily a piece of bread out of the bakers’ street, until all the bread in the city were spent. Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.
