After the year was expired, at the time when kings go forth to battle, David sent Joab and his servants and all Israel against the children of Ammon. They destroyed them and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried still at Jerusalem.

In an eveningtide he arose from his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house. From the roof he saw a woman washing herself, and she was very beautiful to look upon. He sent and enquired after her, and one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite — one of the king's own men, away at the siege? And David sent messengers, and took her; and she came in unto him, and he lay with her, and she returned unto her house.

Then she sent and told him, saying, I am with child.

So David sent to Joab: Send me Uriah the Hittite. When Uriah was come, the king demanded how Joab did, and how the people did, and how the war prospered. Then he said, Go down to thy house, and wash thy feet. And there followed him a portion from the king's table.

But Uriah went not down to his house. He slept at the door of the king's house among the servants of his lord. When they had told David, he said unto him, Camest thou not from thy journey? Wherefore then didst thou not go down unto thine house?

And Uriah answered him. The ark, and Israel, and Judah, abide in tents; and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord are encamped in the open fields. Shall I then go into mine house, to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? As thou livest, and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing.

David bade him tarry yet another day. He called him, and he did eat and drink before him; and he made him drunk. Yet at even Uriah went out to lie upon his bed with the servants of his lord, and went not down to his house.

In the morning David wrote a letter to Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah. Set Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, the letter said, and retire ye from him, that he may be smitten, and die.

As Joab observed the city, he assigned Uriah unto a place where he knew that valiant men were. The men of the city went out and fought with Joab, and there fell some of the servants of David; and Uriah the Hittite died also.

Then Joab sent and told David all the matters of the war, and charged the messenger, if the king's wrath should arise that they went so nigh the wall, to say at the last, Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also. So the messenger came and shewed David all. And David said unto him, Thus shalt thou say unto Joab: Let not this thing displease thee, for the sword devoureth one as well as another. Make thy battle more strong against the city, and overthrow it. And encourage thou him.

When the wife of Uriah heard that her husband was dead, she mourned for her husband. And when the mourning was past, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son.

But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord.
