The voice came unto Isaiah, and it told him what he should say. The country round about him was very still when it began. He had not been looking to hear any thing that day. He had been sitting in his own house when the voice came. The shutters were open. The afternoon light was across the floor.

"Comfort ye, comfort ye my people," it said. "Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. Cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished. Her iniquity is pardoned. She hath received of the LORD's hand double for all her sins."

The voice paused. Then it went on.

It told him what should be said in the years to come. There should be one crying in the wilderness, in a place where no man had thought to listen.

"Prepare ye the way of the LORD. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted. Every mountain and hill shall be made low. The crooked shall be made straight. The rough places shall be made plain. The glory of the LORD shall be revealed. All flesh shall see it together. The mouth of the LORD hath spoken it."

Then the voice gave him words that were sharp. The words were carried upon a wind. They had to be spoken even though no man wanted to hear them.

"All flesh is grass. All the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field. The grass withereth. The flower fadeth. The Spirit of the LORD bloweth upon it. Surely the people is grass. The grass withereth. The flower fadeth."

The voice paused again. Then the last part came.

"But the word of our God shall stand for ever."

The voice softened then. The last part of what was said was the part that should be remembered longest.

"O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain. Lift up thy voice with strength. Lift it up. Be not afraid. Say unto the cities of Judah: Behold your God."

"Behold," the voice said. "The Lord GOD will come with strong hand. His arm shall rule for him. His reward is with him. His recompense is before him. He shall feed his flock like a shepherd. He shall gather the lambs with his arm. He shall carry them in his bosom. He shall gently lead those that are with young."

The voice fell silent at the end of that. Isaiah moved not for a while. The chamber round about him was still. Then he arose from where he had been sitting. He went unto the door of the house. The country opened in front of him. The long road went out unto the city. The houses by the highway were quiet in the late afternoon. The lambs in the small flocks were set out across the hills. The shepherds were among them. He saw that which the voice had told him should be seen. He stood at the door a long while or ever he went back in.
