When Pharaoh drew near, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes. The Egyptians were marching after them. They were very afraid and cried out to the Lord.

They said to Moses, "Is it because there were no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness?"

Moses said to the people, "Do not be afraid. Stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will work for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today, you will never see them again. The Lord will fight for you, and you shall be still."

The Lord said to Moses, "Why do you cry to me? Speak to the children of Israel, that they go forward. Lift up your rod and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it."

Moses stretched out his hand over the sea. The Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night and made the sea dry land. The waters were divided. The children of Israel went into the middle of the sea on the dry ground. The waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left.

The Egyptians pursued and went in after them into the middle of the sea — all of Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.

In the morning watch the Lord looked on the army of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of cloud and confused the army of the Egyptians. He took off their chariot wheels so that they drove them heavily. The Egyptians said, "Let us flee from the face of Israel, for the Lord fights for them against us."

The Lord said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand over the sea, that the waters may come back on the Egyptians, on their chariots, and on their horsemen."

Moses stretched out his hand over the sea. The sea returned to its strength when the morning appeared. The Egyptians fled against it. The Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the middle of the sea. The waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen, all of Pharaoh's army that went in after them into the sea. There remained not so much as one of them.

The children of Israel walked on dry land in the middle of the sea.