Mesha king of Moab was a sheepmaster; he rendered unto the king of Israel an hundred thousand lambs and an hundred thousand rams, with the wool; but when Ahab was dead, the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel. King Jehoram went out of Samaria, numbered all Israel, and sent to Jehoshaphat king of Judah: “The king of Moab hath rebelled against me: wilt thou go with me against Moab to battle?” Jehoshaphat answered, “I will go up: I am as thou art, my people as thy people, and my horses as thy horses.” So the king of Israel went, and the king of Judah, and the king of Edom, through the wilderness of Edom. They fetched a compass of seven days’ journey, and there was no water for the host, nor for the cattle with them. The king of Israel said, “Alas! that the Lord hath called these three kings together, to deliver them into the hand of Moab!” But Jehoshaphat asked for a prophet of the Lord, and a servant answered that Elisha the son of Shaphat was there, which poured water on Elijah’s hands. “The word of the Lord is with him,” Jehoshaphat said, and the kings went down to him.

Elisha bade the king of Israel get to the prophets of his father and his mother; only for Jehoshaphat’s presence would he look toward him. “But now bring me a minstrel.” When the minstrel played, the hand of the Lord came upon Elisha. Thus saith the Lord: make this valley full of ditches; without wind or rain it should be filled with water for them and their cattle; and this being but a light thing in the Lord’s sight, he would deliver the Moabites also into their hand.

When the meat offering was offered in the morning, water came by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water. The Moabites had gathered at the border; when they rose early the sun shone upon the water, and they saw it on the other side as red as blood. “This is blood,” they said. “The kings are surely slain, and they have smitten one another: now therefore, Moab, to the spoil.” When they came to the camp, the Israelites rose up and smote them, and the Moabites fled. Israel went forward smiting them, beat down the cities, cast stones on every good piece of land, stopped the wells, and felled the good trees, until only the stones of Kir-haraseth were left; the slingers went about it and smote it.

When the king of Moab saw the battle was too sore for him, he took seven hundred men that drew swords to break through unto the king of Edom, but they could not. Then he took his eldest son that should have reigned in his stead, and offered him for a burnt offering upon the wall. There was great indignation against Israel, and they departed from him and returned to their own land.
