There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of the Italian band. He was a devout man, and one that feared God with all his house. He gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God alway.

About the ninth hour of the day, he saw in a vision evidently an angel of God coming in to him, and saying unto him, "Cornelius!" And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said, "What is it, Lord?" And the angel said unto him, "Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial before God. And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname is Peter. He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea side."

And when the angel was departed, Cornelius called two of his household servants, and a devout soldier. He sent them to Joppa, and the morning was clear as they went forth.

On the morrow, as they went on their journey, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth hour. And he became very hungry, and would have eaten; but while they made ready, he fell into a trance.

And he saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending unto him, as a great sheet knit at the four corners, let down to the earth. Wherein were all manner of fourfooted beasts of the earth, and creeping things, and fowls of the air. And there came a voice to him, "Rise, Peter; kill, and eat."

But Peter said, "Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten any thing that is common or unclean." And the voice spake unto him again the second time, "What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common." This was done thrice, and the vessel was received up again into heaven.

Then Peter went down with the men which were sent from Caesarea, and on the morrow he entered into the city. And as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him, and fell down at his feet, and worshipped him. But Peter took him up, saying, "Stand up; I myself also am a man."

And Peter said unto them, "Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. But in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him." While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word, and they began to speak with tongues, and magnify God.

Then answered Peter, "Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized?" And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ.
