Then Job answered the Lord.

"I know that thou canst do all things," he said. "No purpose of thine can be stayed."

He knelt in the dust, his robe rent, ashes yet clinging to his arms. "Thou didst ask, 'Who is this that hideth counsel without knowledge?' I spake of things I understood not. Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not."

His voice was low and rough. "I had heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. But now mine eye seeth thee."

He pressed his face toward the ground. "I abhor myself," he said, "and repent in dust and ashes."

The Lord spake then to Eliphaz the Temanite. "My wrath burneth against thee and against thy two friends. Ye have not spoken of me that which is right, as my servant Job hath."

The three men stood still, the wind pulling at their cloaks.

"Take unto you seven bulls and seven rams," the Lord said, "and go to my servant Job. Offer up a burnt offering for yourselves. My servant Job shall pray for you. I will accept his prayer and not deal with you according to your folly."

Eliphaz and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as the Lord commanded them. They brought the beasts. They built the fire. The smoke rose thick and white against the sky. Job stood nigh the altar and prayed for them. And the Lord accepted the prayer of Job.

After Job prayed for his friends, the Lord turned the captivity of Job. The Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before.

His brethren came. His sisters came. All they that had known him aforetime came unto his house. They did eat bread with him. They showed him sympathy. They comforted him over all the evil that the Lord had brought upon him. Every one gave him a piece of silver and a ring of gold.

He had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.

He had also seven sons and three daughters. He called the name of the first Jemimah, and the name of the second Keziah, and the name of the third Kerenhappuch. Their father gave them inheritance among their brethren.

Job lived an hundred and forty years after this. He saw his sons and his sons' sons, even four generations. Then Job died, being old and full of days.
