Naaman was the captain of the host of the king of Syria. He was the man the king sent forth first into battle. He was the one whom other soldiers followed. He rode the finest horses, and wore the best armour, and dwelt in a great house with many servants. All men gave him honour.

But under his armour, under his fine robes, Naaman bore a thing that all men knew and no man could heal. He was a leper — smitten with a sore disease that made patches of his flesh turn white and senseless. It spread slowly. There was no balm for it. No physician could help. No measure of silver could buy a cure.

Naaman was the mightiest soldier in Syria, and he was helpless.

In his house there was a little maid. She had been carried away captive out of a raid upon the land of Israel and brought unto Syria to wait upon Naaman's wife. She was young — perhaps ten or eleven. She was far from home, far from her parents, far from all she loved. She had every reason to grow bitter.

But she was not.

On a day she spake unto Naaman's wife. "Would God my lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria. He would heal him of his leprosy."

It was a small word out of the mouth of a small maid in a great house full of mighty folk. But Naaman's wife told Naaman, and Naaman told the king, and the king said, "Go to, go. I will send a letter unto the king of Israel."

So Naaman departed. He went not lightly. He took with him his horses and his chariots, his men of war and his servants. He took ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of raiment. Thus did mighty men do — they came with riches and with power, and looked to be entreated according to their honour.

He came unto the prophet Elisha's house. His chariot stood still in the dust without. His horses stamped their hooves. His servants stood at attention. Naaman came down and walked unto the door.

Elisha came not forth.

He sent a messenger with a word, saying, "Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean."

Naaman stared upon the messenger. Was that all? No great ceremony? No mighty prayer? No waving of the hand? Did Elisha not even come unto the door?

Naaman was wroth, and went away. "Behold, I thought, He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of the Lord his God, and strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper! And Jordan? That muddy little river? Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them, and be clean?"

He turned his chariot about and made as to depart. He was wroth and ashamed and sore wounded.

But his servants — they that knew him best, that had seen him in his strength and in his weakness — came near and spake carefully unto him.

"My father," said they, "if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be clean?"

Naaman sat still upon his chariot a long while. The river Jordan was even there, muddy and brown, flowing through the low valley. There was nothing wondrous about it. Nothing of renown.

He came down. He walked unto the water's edge. He put off his sandals and went down into the river.

The water was cool. The mud rose between his toes. He beheld the white patches upon his arms. Then he dipped himself under.

Once. He came up. Nothing changed.

Twice. Yet the same.

Three times. Four. Five. Six. The patches were yet there. The flesh was yet senseless and white.

Seven.

He came up out of the water and beheld his arms. The white was gone. The flesh was pink and smooth and soft — like unto the flesh of a little child. He touched his face. His legs. Whereever the disease had been, the flesh was made new.

Naaman stood in the midst of Jordan with the water dripping from his beard. He turned his arms over in the sunlight. He pressed his fingers upon his own flesh and felt the touch — verily felt it — for the first time in many years.

His servants on the bank stared. No man spake a word. The river flowed about Naaman's legs, brown and muddy and common. And the captain of the host of Syria stood therein, whole.
