Naaman was one of the mightiest soldiers in Syria. He was the captain of the host. The king trusted him. Other soldiers looked up unto him. He was valiant and strong, and had won many battles.

But Naaman had a trouble no man could heal. He was smitten with a sore disease called leprosy. It made his flesh turn white in patches and lose all feeling. No matter how many battles he won, no matter how mighty he was, the disease abode upon him.

In Naaman's house there was a little maid of Israel. She had been taken from her home and brought unto Syria to be a servant. She was far from her family and from all she had known. Yet still she had a tender heart toward others.

On a day she said unto Naaman's wife, "Would God my lord were with the prophet that is in Israel. He would heal him."

Those words changed all things. Naaman journeyed unto Israel with horses and chariots and bags of silver and gold. He was wont to be entreated as a man of honour.

He came unto the prophet Elisha's house and stood at the door. But Elisha came not forth. He sent a messenger with a word, saying, "Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean."

Naaman was wroth. "I thought he would surely come out, and wave his hand, and call upon God, and do some great thing! The rivers of mine own country are better than the Jordan. May I not wash therein?"

He turned to depart. But his servants came near and spake gently unto him. "My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? This is a small matter. Try it, we pray thee."

Naaman considered the saying. Then he went down unto the river.

He went down into the water and dipped himself under. Once. Twice. Three times. Four. Five. Six. Nothing changed.

Seven.

He came up out of the water and beheld his arms. The white patches were gone. His flesh was smooth and soft — like unto the flesh of a little child. Clean. Wholly healed.

Naaman stood in the midst of Jordan with the water dripping from his beard, turning his arms over and over in the sunlight.
