When David was a little past the top of the hill, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, an hundred bunches of raisins, an hundred of summer fruits, and a bottle of wine. “What meanest thou by these?” the king asked. The asses were for the king’s household to ride on, Ziba said, the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine for such as be faint in the wilderness. “And where is thy master’s son?” the king asked. Ziba answered that Mephibosheth abode at Jerusalem, for he had said, “To day shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father.” Then said the king to Ziba, “Behold, thine are all that pertained unto Mephibosheth.” Ziba humbly besought the king that he might find grace in his sight.

When king David came to Bahurim, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera. He came forth and cursed still as he came, and he cast stones at David and at all the servants of king David, though all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. “Come out, come out, thou bloody man, and thou man of Belial,” said Shimei. “The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned; and the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son: and, behold, thou art taken in thy mischief, because thou art a bloody man.”

Then said Abishai the son of Zeruiah unto the king, “Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head.” But the king answered, “What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah? so let him curse, because the Lord hath said unto him, Curse David. Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so?” David said to Abishai and to all his servants that his own son, which came forth of his bowels, sought his life—how much more now might this Benjamite do it? “Let him alone, and let him curse; for the Lord hath bidden him. It may be that the Lord will look on mine affliction, and that the Lord will requite me good for his cursing this day.”

So David and his men went by the way, and Shimei went along on the hill’s side over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust. The king and all the people that were with him came weary, and refreshed themselves there.
