When David was a little past the top, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him with a couple of saddled donkeys carrying two hundred loaves of bread, one hundred clusters of raisins, one hundred summer fruits, and a container of wine. “What do you mean by these?” the king asked. The donkeys were for the king’s household to ride on, Ziba said, the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine for those who grew faint in the wilderness. “Where is your master’s son?” the king asked. Ziba answered that Mephibosheth was staying in Jerusalem, for he had said, “Today the house of Israel will restore me the kingdom of my father.” Then the king said to Ziba, “Behold, all that belongs to Mephibosheth is yours.” Ziba bowed and asked to find favor in the king’s sight.

When King David came to Bahurim, a man of the family of Saul’s house came out, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera. He cursed as he came, and he cast stones at David and at all his servants, though all the people and all the mighty men were on the king’s right hand and on his left. “Be gone, be gone, you man of blood, and wicked fellow!” Shimei said. “Yahweh has returned on you all the blood of Saul’s house, in whose place you have reigned! Yahweh has delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom your son! Behold, you are caught by your own mischief, because you are a man of blood!”

Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, “Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Please let me go over and take off his head.” But the king answered, “What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah? Because he curses, and because Yahweh has said to him, ‘Curse David,’ who then shall say, ‘Why have you done so?’” David said to Abishai and to all his servants that his own son, who came out of his bowels, sought his life—how much more this Benjamite now? “Leave him alone, and let him curse; for Yahweh has invited him. It may be that Yahweh will look on the wrong done to me, and that Yahweh will repay me good for the cursing of me today.”

So David and his men went by the way, and Shimei went along on the hillside opposite him, cursing as he went, throwing stones at him, and throwing dust. The king and all the people who were with him arrived weary, and he refreshed himself there.
