David made this song in his own house, perhaps in the evening when the lamp was low. He had been in danger many times or ever he wrote it. He had been hunted in the wilderness. He had been chased into caves. He had stood upon broken stones with men at his back that sought to slay him.

He began the song with what he had learned.

"The LORD is my light," he sang. "And my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The LORD is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid?"

He sang of the time when his enemies came against him to eat up his flesh. They had stumbled and fallen. The host had encamped against him, but his heart had not been afraid. Though war should rise against him, in this would he be confident. He had learned this in the years already past.

He sang what he wanted now, the one thing he wanted. "One thing have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life. To behold the beauty of the LORD. To enquire in his temple."

He sang of the hiding place. "In the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me up upon a rock."

A pavilion is a tent. The secret of the tabernacle is the inner place. The rock is a high stone whereon a man standeth and the country openeth out round about him. David named all three.

He sang of his head lifted up. He sang of the sacrifices of joy he should offer in the tabernacle. He sang of singing, and of singing again, of singing praises unto the LORD.

Then he turned. The song turned with him. He sang a prayer.

"Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice. Have mercy upon me, and answer me. When thou saidst: seek ye my face. My heart said unto thee: thy face, LORD, will I seek. Hide not thy face far from me. Put not thy servant away in anger. Thou hast been my help. Leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation."

He sang of the deepest forsaking. "When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take me up."

He sang of being taught. "Teach me thy way, O LORD. Lead me in a plain path, because of mine enemies."

He sang of his enemies. "Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies. For false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty."

Then the song turned again. He sang of believing he should see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living. He sang that he had fainted, unless he had believed it.

He closed the song with the line that any that heard would carry away.

"Wait on the LORD," he sang. "Be of good courage. And he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the LORD."

The last note settled. The lamp in the room burned low. The night went on round about the house. David sat where he had been singing, the song finished, the country wherein he had been hunted yet in his mind, the rock in the secret of the tabernacle yet in his song.
