The Ziphites told Saul at Gibeah that David was hiding on the hill of Hachilah, before the desert. Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph with three thousand chosen men of Israel and encamped on the hill of Hachilah beside the way. David stayed in the wilderness, saw that Saul had come after him, and sent out spies, and understood that Saul had certainly come.

David came to the place where Saul had encamped and saw where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army. David asked Ahimelech the Hittite and Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, “Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp?” Abishai answered, “I will go down with you.”

So David and Abishai came to the people by night. Saul lay sleeping within the place of the wagons with his spear stuck in the ground at his head, and Abner and the people lay around him. Abishai said to David, “God has delivered up your enemy into your hand today.” He asked leave to strike Saul to the earth with the spear at one stroke. But David said, “Don’t destroy him, for who can stretch out his hand against Yahweh’s anointed, and be guiltless?” As Yahweh lived, Yahweh himself would strike Saul, or his day would come to die, or he would go down into battle and perish. David took the spear and the jar of water from Saul’s head, and they went away. No man saw it or knew it, and no one awoke, for a deep sleep from Yahweh had fallen on them all.

David crossed to the other side and stood far off on the top of the mountain, a great space between them, and he cried out to the people and to Abner. Why had Abner not kept watch over his lord the king? One of the people had come in to destroy him. “Now see where the king’s spear is, and the jar of water that was at his head.”

Saul recognized David’s voice. “Is this your voice, my son David?” he asked. David answered that it was, and he asked why his lord pursued his servant. What had he done? Saul said, “I have sinned. Return, my son David; for I will no more do you harm, because my life was precious in your eyes today. Behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.”

David held out the spear for one of the young men to come over and take. Yahweh had delivered Saul into David’s hand that day, and David would not stretch out his hand against Yahweh’s anointed. Saul blessed him: “You are blessed, my son David. You will both do mightily, and will surely prevail.” So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.
