The Ziphites told Saul at Gibeah that David hid himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon. Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, and pitched in the hill of Hachilah by the way. David abode in the wilderness, saw that Saul came after him, and sent out spies, and understood that Saul was come in very deed.

David came to the place where Saul had pitched and beheld where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host. David said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, “Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp?” Abishai answered, “I will go down with thee.”

So David and Abishai came to the people by night. Saul lay sleeping within the trench, his spear stuck in the ground at his bolster, and Abner and the people lay round about him. Abishai said to David, “God hath delivered thine enemy into thine hand this day.” He asked leave to smite Saul with the spear even to the earth at once. But David said, “Destroy him not: for who can stretch forth his hand against the Lord’s anointed, and be guiltless?” As the Lord lived, the Lord himself would smite Saul, or his day would come to die, or he would descend into battle and perish. David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul’s bolster, and they gat them away. No man saw it or knew it, neither did any awake, for a deep sleep from the Lord was fallen upon them all.

Then David went over to the other side and stood on the top of an hill afar off, a great space being between them, and he cried to the people and to Abner. Wherefore had Abner not kept his lord the king? One of the people had come in to destroy him. “And now see where the king’s spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his bolster.”

Saul knew David’s voice. “Is this thy voice, my son David?” he asked. David answered that it was, and he asked wherefore his lord pursued after his servant. What had he done? Then said Saul, “I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.”

David held out the king’s spear for one of the young men to come over and fetch. The Lord had delivered Saul into David’s hand that day, but David would not stretch forth his hand against the Lord’s anointed. Saul blessed him: “Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt still prevail.” So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
