When the kings on this side Jordan — the Hittites and Amorites and Canaanites and the rest — heard of it, they gathered themselves together with one accord to fight against Joshua. But the inhabitants of Gibeon took another way. They had heard what Joshua had done unto Jericho and unto Ai, and they wrought wilily. They took old sacks upon their asses, and wine bottles old and rent and bound up, and old and clouted shoes upon their feet, and old garments upon them, and their provision of bread was dry and mouldy; and so they came to the camp at Gilgal.

We be come from a far country, they said unto Joshua and the men of Israel. Now therefore make ye a covenant with us.

The men of Israel were wary. Peradventure ye dwell among us, they said; how then shall we make a covenant with you? But the Gibeonites turned to Joshua. We are thy servants, they said. When he asked who they were and whence they came, they answered with a tale: from a very far country were they come, because of the name of the Lord their God, having heard all that he did in Egypt, and to the two kings of the Amorites beyond Jordan. Their elders had sent them with provision for the way. And they pointed to the proof — this bread they took hot from their houses the day they set out, they said, and now it was dry and mouldy; these bottles were new when filled, and now they were rent; their garments and shoes were worn by the very long journey.

The men took of their victuals. But they asked not counsel at the mouth of the Lord. So Joshua made peace with them, and made a covenant to let them live; and the princes of the congregation sware unto them.

At the end of three days the truth came out: these were their neighbours, and dwelt among them. Israel came unto their cities — Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kirjath-jearim — but smote them not, because the princes had sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel. And all the congregation murmured against the princes. But the princes held to the oath. We have sworn unto them by the Lord, they said; now we may not touch them. This we will do: we will let them live, lest wrath be upon us, because of the oath we sware unto them. So the Gibeonites were spared, and made hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation.

Then Joshua called for them and confronted them. Wherefore have ye beguiled us, he said, saying, We are very far from you, when ye dwell among us? Now therefore ye are cursed. There shall none of you be freed from being bondmen — hewers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God.

They answered him plainly. It had been told them for a certainty, they said, how the Lord their God had charged his servant Moses to give Israel all the land and to destroy its peoples before them; and so, in sore dread for their lives, they had done this thing. Now they were in Joshua's hand, to be dealt with as seemed good and right to him. And Joshua did so, and delivered them out of the hand of Israel, that they slew them not. That day he made them hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation, and for the altar of the Lord, in the place which he should choose.
