Naomi had heard from Ruth that the barley harvest at Boaz's field had gone well; the gleanings had come in heavy each day, the corner left for the poor had not been gathered in, and Ruth had come home with grain enough for them both. The wheat harvest was now ending. The threshing was being done at the floor on the high ground without Bethlehem, where the men slept beside the grain to keep the watch. Naomi sat with Ruth in the evening, and she made a plan, and she spake unto her thus.

Naomi her mother in law said unto her, "My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee?

And now is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou wast? Behold, he winnoweth barley to night in the threshingfloor.

Wash thyself therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon thee, and get thee down to the floor, but make not thyself known unto the man, until he shall have done eating and drinking.

And it shall be, when he lieth down, that thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie. Then thou shalt go in, and uncover his feet, and lay thee down. And he will tell thee what thou shalt do."

And she said unto her, "All that thou sayest unto me I will do."

And she went down unto the floor, and did according unto all that her mother in law bade her.

And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn. And she came softly, and uncovered his feet, and laid her down.

And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was afraid, and turned himself; and behold, a woman lay at his feet.

And he said, "Who art thou?"

And she answered, "I am Ruth thine handmaid. Spread therefore thy skirt over thine handmaid; for thou art a near kinsman."

And the woman lay at the feet of the man at the end of the heap of corn. The moon stood high over the threshingfloor at Bethlehem; the men that slept by the piles of barley stirred not; the question had been spoken and the answer had been given; and the night went on quietly with the woman of Moab at the feet of the kinsman of Elimelech the husband of Naomi.
