In the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth day of the month, as I was among the captives by the river Chebar, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God.

The Lord's word came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar, and the Lord's hand was there on him.

I looked, and behold, a stormy wind came out of the north: a great cloud, with flashing lightning, and a brightness around it, and out of its midst as it were glowing metal, out of the midst of the fire.

Out of its midst came the likeness of four living creatures. They had the likeness of a man. Everyone had four faces, and each one of them had four wings. They sparkled like burnished bronze. Their wings were joined to one another, and each one went straight forward.

As for the likeness of their faces, they had the face of a man. The four of them had the face of a lion on the right side, the face of an ox on the left side, and the face of an eagle.

The appearance of the living creatures was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches. The fire was bright, and lightning went out of the fire. The living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning.

Now as I saw the living creatures, behold, there was one wheel on the earth beside the living creatures, for each of the four faces of it. The appearance of the wheels was like a beryl, as it were a wheel within a wheel.

As for their rims, they were high and dreadful, and the four of them had their rims full of eyes all around. When the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up beside them, for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.

Over the head of the living creature there was the likeness of an expanse, like an awesome crystal to look at, stretched out over their heads above. When they went, I heard the noise of their wings like the noise of great waters, like the voice of the Almighty, a noise of tumult like the noise of an army.

Above the expanse that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone. On the throne was a likeness as the appearance of a man on it above.

I saw as it were glowing metal, as the appearance of fire within it all around. As the appearance of the rainbow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around.

This was the appearance of the likeness of the Lord's glory. When I saw it, I fell on my face, and I heard a voice of one that spoke.
