Eight days had passed since the child was born. The neighbours of Elisabeth and Zacharias came up the path unto the house in the hill country of Judaea to share in the day of the circumcision, and the kinsfolk of the family gathered with them at the door. The child lay in his mother's arms. The neighbours had brought the names of the father's house ready to be spoken — Zacharias, for the father who had stood beside the altar of incense and seen the vision — but Elisabeth had told them his name was John. They had turned unto the father, who had not spoken for nine months. He had asked for a writing table. He had written: "His name is John." And as he wrote it, his mouth was opened, and his tongue loosed; and he was filled with the Holy Ghost, and the words that came forth from him were these.

And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost, and prophesied, saying,

"Blessed be the Lord God of Israel;
for he hath visited and redeemed his people,

And hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David;

As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began:

That we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us;

To perform the mercy promised to our fathers,
and to remember his holy covenant;

The oath which he sware to our father Abraham,

That he would grant unto us, that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies
might serve him without fear,

In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days of our life.

And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest:
for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways;

To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins,

Through the tender mercy of our God;
whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us,

To give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death,
to guide our feet into the way of peace."

And the song of the old priest was ended. The neighbours and the kinsfolk that had come up unto the house in the hill country went away talking together of that which they had seen and heard. The mother held the child. The father had spoken at the last. And the words concerning the dayspring that should visit from on high tarried in the air of the house long after the visitors were gone.
