Eight days had passed since the child was born. The neighbors of Elisabeth and Zacharias came up the path to the house in the hill country of Judea to share in the day of the circumcision, and the kinsmen of the family gathered with them at the door. The child lay in his mother's arms. The neighbors had brought the names of the father's house ready to be spoken — Zacharias for the father who had stood beside the altar of incense and seen the vision — but Elisabeth had told them his name was John. They had turned to the father, who had not spoken for nine months. He had asked for a writing tablet. He had written: "His name is John." And as he wrote it, his mouth was opened and his tongue was loosed; and he was filled with the Holy Spirit, and the words that came out of him were these.

His father, Zacharias, was filled with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying,

"Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel,
for he has visited and redeemed his people;

and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David

(as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets who have been from of old),

salvation from our enemies, and from the hand of all who hate us;

to show mercy towards our fathers,
to remember his holy covenant,

the oath which he swore to Abraham, our father,

to grant to us that we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies,
should serve him without fear,

In holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life.

And you, child, will be called a prophet of the Most High,
for you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways,

to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins,

because of the tender mercy of our God,
whereby the dawn from on high will visit us,

to shine on those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death;
to guide our feet into the way of peace."

And the song of the old priest was finished. The neighbors and the kinsmen who had come up to the house in the hill country went away talking together about what they had seen and heard. The mother held the child. The father had spoken at last. And the words about the dawn that would visit from on high stayed in the air of the house long after the visitors had gone.
