The king returned and came unto Jordan. Judah came to Gilgal to meet him and conduct him over the river. Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite of Bahurim, hasted down with the men of Judah. A thousand men of Benjamin were with him. Ziba, servant of the house of Saul, also came with his fifteen sons and twenty servants. They went over Jordan before the king.

A ferry boat carried over the king’s household and did what he thought good. When David was come over Jordan, Shimei fell down before him. He asked the king not to impute iniquity unto him or remember the perversity Shimei had committed when David went out of Jerusalem. Shimei said he knew that he had sinned and had come first of all the house of Joseph to meet his lord the king.

Abishai the son of Zeruiah asked whether Shimei should be put to death because he had cursed the Lord’s anointed. David called the sons of Zeruiah adversaries unto him that day. He asked whether any man should be put to death in Israel on the day he knew himself to be king over Israel. David told Shimei, “Thou shalt not die,” and the king sware unto him.

Mephibosheth the son of Saul also came down to meet the king. From the day David departed until the day he came again in peace, Mephibosheth had neither dressed his feet, trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes. When he came to Jerusalem, David asked wherefore he had not gone with him.

Mephibosheth answered that his servant had deceived him. Because Mephibosheth was lame, he had said that an ass should be saddled so he might ride thereon and go with the king. He said his servant had slandered him unto David. Calling the king as an angel of God, Mephibosheth told David to do what was good in his eyes.

Mephibosheth said that all his father’s house had been but dead men before David, yet David had set him among them that ate at the king’s table. He asked what right he had to cry any more unto the king. David ended the matter by saying that Mephibosheth and Ziba should divide the land. Mephibosheth answered that Ziba might take all, forasmuch as his lord the king had come again in peace unto his own house.
