Peter stood before Jesus and put forth a question unto him. "Lord, how many times shall my brother trespass against me and I forgive him? Shall seven times suffice?"

And Jesus said unto him, "I say not unto thee seven times, but seventy times seven."

Then Jesus spake unto them after this manner. The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a certain king who purposed to settle accounts with his servants. And when he had begun the reckoning, there was brought before him one servant who owed ten thousand talents. The sum was past all repaying. And the king commanded that the man should be sold, and his wife also, and his children, and all that he possessed, that payment might be rendered.

The servant fell down upon the floor before the king. His brow pressed hard against the stone. "Lord, have patience with me," said he, "and I shall repay thee the whole of it."

And the king looked upon the man where he lay upon the ground, and his heart was moved with great compassion. He loosed the servant and forgave him the debt entire. Every coin thereof. Blotted out.

And the servant went forth from the king's hall. He passed through the courtyard and out into the streets. And there he found a fellow servant who owed him an hundred pence. He seized the man by the throat with both his hands. "Pay me that which thou owest," said he.

The fellow servant fell upon his knees. His hands took hold upon the other man's wrists. "Have patience with me," said he, "and I shall repay thee the whole of it."

The selfsame words. The selfsame posture. The selfsame plea.

But the servant would not. He dragged the man hence and had him cast into prison until the debt should be paid.

Now other servants beheld what had come to pass, and they were grieved greatly in their hearts. They went together unto the king and declared unto him all that was done.

Then the king summoned the servant back. And the man stood once more in that same hall wherein he had received forgiveness. But the countenance of the king was changed.

"Thou wicked servant," said the king. "I forgave thee the whole of that debt because thou didst entreat me. Oughtest thou not also to have shown compassion unto thy fellow servant, even as I had pity upon thee?"

And the king was wroth. He delivered the servant over unto the tormentors until he should pay all that was due unto him.

Jesus looked upon the men gathered about him. "Even so shall my Father which is in heaven do unto every one of you," said he, "if ye forgive not your brother from your heart."
