Naaman was captain of the host of the king of Syria. He was a great man with his master. He was honourable in the sight of all that knew him. By him the LORD had given deliverance unto Syria more than once. He was a mighty man in valour. He was a leper.

A little maid had been brought away captive out of the land of Israel in one of the raids. She waited on Naaman's wife. She knew the trouble that was in the house. She had spoken of her own country unto the wife many times. One day she said unto her mistress: would God my lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria. He would recover him of his leprosy.

The wife told Naaman. Naaman told the king of Syria what the maid had said. The king of Syria said: go to. Go, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. Naaman departed, and took with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of raiment. He brought the letter to the king of Israel.

The king of Israel rent his clothes when he read it. He said: am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man doth send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? See how he seeketh a quarrel against me.

Elisha the man of God heard. He sent unto the king: let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.

Naaman came up unto Samaria with his horses and with his chariot. The chariot stayed at the door of the house of Elisha. The horses stood waiting in the road without. The dust of the journey was yet upon the wheels.

Elisha came not out. He sent a messenger unto him. The messenger said: go and wash in Jordan seven times. Thy flesh shall come again to thee. Thou shalt be clean.

Naaman was wroth. He turned to go away. He said: I thought he would come out to me. I thought he would stand and call on the name of the LORD his God. I thought he would strike his hand over the place and recover the leper. Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them, and be clean?

He went away in a rage. His chariot turned back from Elisha's door. They went out of Samaria the way they had come.

His servants came near unto him on the road. They spake unto him with reverence. They said: my father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldst thou not have done it? How much rather then, when he saith to thee, wash, and be clean?

Naaman heard them. He answered not at once. Then he turned the chariot back toward the river.

He went down unto Jordan. He put off his garments. He stepped into the water. He dipped himself once. He dipped himself twice. He dipped himself three times. He dipped himself four times. He dipped himself five times. He dipped himself six times. He dipped himself the seventh time.

His flesh came again to him like unto the flesh of a little child. He was clean.

He came up out of the water. The servants helped him with his garments. He stood upon the bank a long while. The Jordan went on past him. The chariot stood waiting on the bank.

He went back unto Elisha's door. The dust of the river was upon his sandals.
