In the days when the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord, the people were oppressed by Jabin the king of Canaan, and Sisera the captain of his host. He had nine hundred chariots of iron, and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel. And the people cried unto the Lord.

Now Deborah, a prophetess, judged Israel at that time. She dwelt under the palm tree of Deborah in mount Ephraim, and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.

She sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam, and said unto him, "Hath not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying, Go and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun? And I will draw unto thee, to the river Kishon, Sisera with his chariots and his multitude, and I will deliver him into thine hand."

Barak said unto her, "If thou wilt go with me, then I will go. But if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go."

She said, "I will surely go with thee. Notwithstanding the journey that thou takest shall not be for thine honour. The Lord shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman." So Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.

When it was shewed Sisera that Barak was gone up to mount Tabor, he gathered together all his chariots, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth unto the river of Kishon. Deborah said unto Barak, "Up; for this is the day in which the Lord hath delivered Sisera into thine hand. Is not the Lord gone out before thee?"

So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him. The Lord discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, before Barak, and Sisera lighted down off his chariot, and fled away on his feet. Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword.

Howbeit Sisera fled to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite. And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, "Turn in, my lord, turn in to me. Fear not." And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a mantle.

He said unto her, "Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink, for I am thirsty." She opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him. Then a heavy sleep came upon him.

Then Jael took a nail of the tent, and took an hammer, and went softly unto him. She smote the nail into his temples, and he died.

When Barak pursued, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, "Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest." So Barak came in, and behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.

So God subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel. And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin.
