The people of Midian were cruel unto Israel. They stole the crops and the cattle. When they came, the Israelites hid themselves in dens and in caves in the mountains.

A young man named Gideon was threshing wheat by a winepress. He was hiding it from the Midianites, that they should not steal it away. He wrought with haste, looking over his shoulder.

The angel of the Lord appeared and sat down under an oak that was near him. "The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valour," said the angel.

Gideon looked up. He felt not like a mighty man. He felt small and afraid. "If the Lord be with us, wherefore then is all this befallen us?" said Gideon. "Where be all his miracles which our fathers told us of? The Lord hath forsaken us."

The Lord turned unto him. "Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have not I sent thee?"

Gideon shook his head. "Wherewith shall I save Israel? My family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house."

"Surely I will be with thee," said the Lord. "And thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man."

Gideon would fain believe it. "If now I have found grace in thy sight," said he, "then shew me a sign that thou talkest with me. Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present."

"I will tarry until thou come again," said the Lord.

Gideon hasted within. He dressed a kid and made unleavened cakes. He put the flesh in a basket and the broth in a pot and brought them forth unto him under the oak.

The angel of God said, "Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock. And pour out the broth." And Gideon did so.

Then the angel of the Lord put forth the end of his staff and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes. There rose up fire out of the rock. The flames consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes wholly. When Gideon looked up, the angel was departed out of his sight.

Gideon's eyes were wide. "I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face!" he whispered.

"Peace be unto thee," said the Lord. "Fear not. Thou shalt not die."

Then Gideon built an altar there, and called it "The Lord is Peace."
