Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king’s heart was toward Absalom. He sent to Tekoah and fetched thence a wise woman, and he bade her feign herself to be a mourner, to put on mourning apparel, not to anoint herself with oil, but to be as a woman that had a long time mourned for the dead. She was to come to the king and speak on this manner unto him. So Joab put the words in her mouth.

The woman of Tekoah fell on her face to the ground before the king, did obeisance, and said, “Help, O king.” The king asked what ailed her. She answered that she was indeed a widow woman, and her husband was dead. Her two sons had striven together in the field, and there was none to part them, but the one smote the other and slew him. Now the whole family was risen against his handmaid, saying, deliver him that smote his brother, that we may kill him for the life of his brother; and so they would destroy the heir also, quench her coal which was left, and leave to her husband neither name nor remainder upon the earth.

The king told her to go to her house, and he would give charge concerning her. When she pressed him, he sware, “As the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth.”

Then the woman asked leave to speak one word unto her lord the king. “Say on,” he said. Wherefore, she asked, had the king thought such a thing against the people of God? The king spoke this thing as one which was faulty, in that the king did not fetch home again his banished. We must needs die, she said, and are as water spilt on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again; yet God doth devise means, that his banished be not expelled from him.

The king asked her to hide nothing from him. “Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this?” he asked. The woman answered that his servant Joab had bidden her and had put all these words in the mouth of his handmaid, to fetch about this form of speech.

The king said unto Joab, “Behold now, I have done this thing: go therefore, bring the young man Absalom again.” Joab fell to the ground on his face, bowed himself, and thanked the king. Then Joab arose, went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem. But the king said, “Let him turn to his own house, and let him not see my face.” So Absalom returned to his own house, and saw not the king’s face.
