Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king’s heart was toward Absalom. He sent to Tekoa and brought a wise woman from there, and he told her to act like a mourner, to put on mourning clothing, not to anoint herself with oil, and to be as a woman who had mourned a long time for the dead. She was to go in to the king and speak as Joab directed. So Joab put the words in her mouth.

The woman of Tekoa fell on her face to the ground before the king, showed respect, and said, “Help, O king!” The king asked what ailed her. She answered that she was a widow, and her husband was dead. Her two sons had fought together in the field with no one to part them, and one had struck the other and killed him. Now the whole family had risen against her, demanding that she hand over the one who struck his brother, to kill him for his brother’s life and so destroy the heir also. They would quench her coal which was left and leave her husband neither name nor remainder on the surface of the earth.

The king told her to go to her house, and he would give a command concerning her. When she pressed him, he swore, “As Yahweh lives, not one hair of your son shall fall to the earth.”

Then the woman asked leave to speak a word to her lord the king. “Say on,” he said. Why, she asked, had the king devised such a thing against the people of God? In speaking this word the king was as one who was guilty, in that the king did not bring home again his banished one. We must die, she said, and are like water spilled on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again; yet God does not take away life, but devises means, so that he who is banished is not an outcast from him.

The king asked her not to hide anything from him. “Is the hand of Joab with you in all this?” he asked. The woman answered that his servant Joab had urged her and had put all these words in the mouth of his servant, to change the face of the matter.

The king said to Joab, “Behold now, I have granted this thing. Go therefore, and bring the young man Absalom back.” Joab fell to the ground on his face, showed respect, and blessed the king. Then Joab arose, went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem. But the king said, “Let him return to his own house, but let him not see my face.” So Absalom returned to his own house, and didn’t see the king’s face.
