The decree had been signed in the afternoon. Daniel had stood in the king's hall when it was read. He had said nothing. The satraps had watched his countenance when the words of the writing were spoken aloud. Every petition for thirty days was to be made unto the king alone. Every man that brake the decree was to be cast into the den of lions. They had been watching for a way to bring him low a long while. Now they had found one.

He went out of the hall when it was finished. He passed through the streets of the city as he was wont to walk them every other afternoon. He went home.

The upper chamber of his house was the chamber wherein he prayed. The windows there stood open toward Jerusalem. They had stood open every day since the year wherein the captivity had brought him into the king's service. He went into the chamber. He kneeled upon the stone where he had kneeled every day for forty years. He gave thanks before his God three times a day, as he did aforetime. He changed not a thing.

The men that had been watching for him gathered without the court. They saw the bowed form at the casement. They went unto the king with the law upon their lips. The king's countenance was changed when he heard. He had set his heart upon Daniel a long while. He laboured at the thing until the going down of the sun. He sought how he might undo the seal he had set with his own hand. The men came again at the evening hour. They reminded him that a decree of the Medes and Persians altereth not. The king commanded. They brought Daniel. They cast him into the den of lions.

A stone was rolled upon the mouth of the den. The king sealed it with his own signet. The signets of his lords were set beside it. The seal hardened in the air of evening. The torches lit the stone with a yellow light. The king spake unto Daniel through the stone or ever he turned aside. "Thy God whom thou servest continually," he said. "He will deliver thee." Then he turned and went up the steps unto his palace.

The king would not eat that night. He commanded the instruments of musick to be put forth from his chamber. He sat in his own room with the door shut. The lamps were not lit. He called not for wine. He sat in the dark and hearkened for the lions in the country below the palace. Sometime in the long hours of the night he stood at his casement. He looked out across the gardens. The night was very still. The lions were silent below the palace, and that was not their manner. He hearkened a long while. He heard nothing. He sat him down again upon the edge of his bed and waited.

In the den below, Daniel had been kneeling upon the floor of the place since the men had set him down upon the dirt at the bottom of the pit. The lions were near him. He could feel their breath in the dark. He could hear them when one of them moved upon the floor of the den. Nothing else befell him. The hours of the night passed in the country below the palace. He slept not. He prayed where he was. The same prayer he had prayed in the upper chamber at the going down of the sun was the prayer he prayed in the den. The lions came not near him. They lay in the dark round about him and drew not nigh.

The king went down unto the den very early, or ever the city was awake. The torch-bearers went before him upon the stone steps. The stone of the king's seal was yet in place at the mouth. He stood before it. He cried with a lamentable voice. He cried as one crieth that hath not yet suffered himself to hope.

"O Daniel," he said. "Servant of the living God. Is thy God whom thou servest continually able to deliver thee from the lions?"

The voice that answered came steady through the stone. It came up out of the den the way the answer cometh out of any place wherein a man yet liveth.

"O king, live for ever. My God hath sent his angel. He hath shut the lions' mouths. They have not hurt me. Before him innocency was found in me. And before thee, O king, have I done no hurt."

Then was the king exceeding glad for him. He gave the command straightway. They brake the seal. They rolled the stone aside. Daniel came up out of the den. The morning was very fresh upon the upper stones. No manner of hurt was found upon him. The king embraced him in the doorway. They stood there together a long moment in the rising light.

Daniel went home through the city. The streets were beginning to wake. The watchmen at the city gate had not yet heard the tidings. They looked up at him passing as they were wont to look up at him. He went into his house. He went up unto the upper chamber. The windows yet stood open toward Jerusalem. He kneeled upon the stone where he had kneeled the day before. He gave thanks before his God as he was wont to do. The lions far below the palace were silent for the rest of that morning.
