The decree had been signed in the afternoon. Daniel had read the writing in the king's hall while the satraps were yet gathered round about the throne. He had said nothing in the hall. He went out of the palace gate. He passed through the streets of the city. He went up unto the upper chamber where he was wont to pray.

His windows there stood open toward Jerusalem. They had stood open every day since the year wherein the captivity had brought him into the king's service. The room was small. There was a stone bench along one wall and a low table whereon he kept the scrolls. There was nothing else. He passed into the chamber. He kneeled where he was wont to kneel. He gave thanks before his God three times a day, as he did aforetime.

The men that had been watching for him gathered without the court. They saw the bowed form at the casement. They went again unto the king with the law upon their lips.

The king's countenance was changed when he heard. He laboured at the thing until the going down of the sun. He sought how he might undo the seal he had set with his own hand. The men came again at the evening hour. They reminded him that a decree of the Medes and Persians altereth not. Then the king commanded. They brought Daniel. They cast him into the den of lions.

A stone was rolled upon the mouth of the den. The king sealed it with his own signet. The signets of his lords were set beside it. The seal hardened in the air of evening. He spake unto Daniel through the stone before he turned aside. "Thy God whom thou servest continually," he said. "He will deliver thee."

The king went up unto his palace and would not eat. He commanded the instruments of musick to be put forth from his chamber. He sat in his own room with the door shut. The lamps were not lit. He called not for wine. He sat in the dark and waited for the morning. His sleep went from him.

Sometime in the night he stood at his casement. He looked out across the gardens. The night was very still. The lions were silent below the palace, and that was not their manner. He hearkened a long while. He heard nothing. He sat him down again upon the edge of his bed and waited.

He arose very early in the morning, or ever the city was awake. The torch-bearers went before him upon the stone steps that led down unto the den. The stone of the king's seal was yet in place at the mouth. He stood before it. He cried with a lamentable voice. "O Daniel, servant of the living God. Is thy God whom thou servest continually able to deliver thee from the lions?"

The voice that answered came steady through the stone. It came up out of the den the way the answer cometh out of any place wherein a man yet liveth. "O king, live for ever. My God hath sent his angel. He hath shut the lions' mouths. They have not hurt me. Before him innocency was found in me. And before thee, O king, have I done no hurt."

Then was the king exceeding glad for him. He gave the command. They brake the seal. They rolled the stone aside. Daniel came up out of the den. The morning was very fresh upon the upper stones. No manner of hurt was found upon him. The king embraced him in the doorway.

Daniel went home through the city. The windows in the upper chamber yet stood open. He went up. He kneeled where he had kneeled the day before. He gave thanks before his God as he was wont to do. The lions far below the palace were silent for the rest of that morning.
