Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest of Midian. He led the flock to the backside of the desert and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb.

The angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. Moses looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. The flames moved in the branches, bright and steady, and the wood blackened not. The leaves curled not, nor fell.

Moses said, "I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt."

When the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush. "Moses, Moses."

He said, "Here am I."

God said, "Draw not nigh hither. Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground." Then he said, "I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob."

Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God.

The Lord said, "I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing with milk and honey."

Then God said, "Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt."

Moses said unto God, "Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?"

God said, "Certainly I will be with thee. And this shall be a token unto thee, that I have sent thee: when thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain."

Moses said, "When I come unto the children of Israel and shall say unto them, 'The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you,' and they shall say to me, 'What is his name?' — what shall I say unto them?"

God said unto Moses, "I AM THAT I AM." He said, "Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, 'I AM hath sent me unto you.'" God said moreover, "The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you. This is my name for ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations."