Moses was keeping the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. He led the flock to the far side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God.

The angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the middle of a bush. Moses looked, and the bush burned with fire, but the bush was not consumed. The flames moved in the branches, bright and steady, and the wood did not blacken. The leaves did not curl or fall.

Moses said, "I will turn aside now and see this great sight, why the bush is not burned."

When the Lord saw that he turned aside to look, God called to him out of the middle of the bush. "Moses, Moses."

He said, "Here I am."

God said, "Do not come close. Take off your sandals, for the place where you are standing is holy ground." Then he said, "I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob."

Moses hid his face. He was afraid to look at God.

The Lord said, "I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. I have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings. I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them to a good and large land, a land flowing with milk and honey."

Then God said, "Come now, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt."

Moses said to God, "Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?"

God said, "Certainly I will be with you. This will be the sign to you that I have sent you: when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain."

Moses said, "When I come to the children of Israel and tell them, 'The God of your fathers has sent me to you,' and they ask me, 'What is his name?' — what shall I say to them?"

God said to Moses, "I AM WHO I AM." He said, "You shall tell the children of Israel, 'I AM has sent me to you.'" God said further, "The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations."