Daniel had been brought before the king. He had been brought by Arioch, the captain of the king's guard. He stood before the throne. He had been given the dream and the interpretation in a vision of the night. He had blessed God or ever he came in. He stood now before the king.

He spake first of what the king had seen. "Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great image. The image was very bright. The form thereof was terrible. It stood before thee.

"The head of this image was of fine gold. The breast and his arms of silver. The belly and his thighs of brass. The legs of iron. The feet part of iron and part of clay.

"Thou sawest till a stone was cut out without hands. The stone smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay. It brake them to pieces.

"Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken to pieces together. They became like the chaff of the summer threshingfloors. The wind carried them away. No place was found for them.

"The stone that smote the image became a great mountain. The mountain filled the whole earth."

He paused. The king was hearkening.

He gave the interpretation. "This is the dream. We will tell the interpretation thereof before the king.

"Thou, O king, art a king of kings. The God of heaven hath given thee a kingdom, power, and strength, and glory. Thou art this head of gold.

"After thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee. And another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth.

"The fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron. Forasmuch as iron breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things, so shall it break in pieces and bruise. The feet and toes, part of iron and part of clay: the kingdom shall be divided. There shall be in it of the strength of the iron. Part shall be broken.

"In the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed. The kingdom shall not be left to other people. It shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms. It shall stand for ever.

"Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands. It brake in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold. The great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter. The dream is certain. The interpretation thereof is sure."

The king fell upon his face. He worshipped Daniel. He said: of a truth, your God is a God of gods, and a Lord of kings, and a revealer of secrets, seeing thou couldest reveal this secret. He commanded that an oblation and sweet odours be offered unto Daniel. He made Daniel a great man. He gave him many great gifts. He made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon. He made him chief of the governors over all the wise men of Babylon.
