It came to pass after this also, that the children of Moab, and the children of Ammon, and with them other beside the Ammonites, came against Jehoshaphat king of Judah to battle. Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, "A great multitude cometh against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria. Behold, they be in Hazazon Tamar."

And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek the Lord, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. And Judah gathered themselves together, to ask help of the Lord. Out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord.

And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the Lord, before the new court. And he prayed, "O Lord God of our fathers, art not thou God in heaven? and rulest not thou over all the kingdoms of the heathen? and in thine hand is there not power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee?"

And he said, "Now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir, whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade, when they came out of the land of Egypt, behold, they reward us, to come to cast us out of thy possession, which thou hast given us to inherit."

Then prayed he the words which he could not put away from his mouth: "O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no might against this great company that cometh against us; neither know we what to do: but our eyes are upon thee."

And all Judah stood before the Lord, with their little ones, their wives, and their children. The lamps of the temple burned before them, and the people moved not from their places.

Then came the Spirit of the Lord upon Jahaziel, and he said, "Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, and thou king Jehoshaphat. Thus saith the Lord unto you, 'Be not afraid nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not yours, but God's.'"

And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground. And all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the Lord, worshipping the Lord.

And on the morrow they went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa. As they went forth, the Lord set ambushments against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, which were come against Judah. And they were smitten.

And when Judah came toward the watch tower in the wilderness, they looked unto the multitude, and, behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and none escaped. So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet: for his God gave him rest round about.
