After this, the children of Moab, the children of Ammon, and with them others besides the Ammonites, came against Jehoshaphat king of Judah to battle. Then there came some who told Jehoshaphat, saying, "A great multitude is coming against you from beyond the sea from Syria. Behold, they are in Hazazon Tamar."

Jehoshaphat was afraid. He set himself to seek the Lord, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. Judah gathered together to ask help of the Lord. Out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord.

Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the Lord, before the new court. He prayed, "Lord, the God of our fathers, aren't you God in heaven? Aren't you ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations? Power and might are in your hand, so that no one is able to withstand you."

He said, "Now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom you would not let Israel invade when they came out of the land of Egypt, behold, they reward us by coming to throw us out of your possession, which you have given us to inherit."

Then he prayed the words that he could not put away from his mouth: "Our God, will you not judge them? For we have no might against this great company that comes against us. Neither do we know what to do, but our eyes are on you."

All Judah stood before the Lord, with their little ones, their wives, and their children. The lamps of the temple were burning before them, and the people did not move from their places.

Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Jahaziel, and he said, "Listen, all Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem, and you, king Jehoshaphat. The Lord says to you, 'Don't be afraid, neither be dismayed by reason of this great multitude. For the battle is not yours, but God's.'"

Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground. All Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the Lord, worshiping him.

The next day they went out into the wilderness of Tekoa. As they went forth, the Lord set ambushes against the children of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come against Judah. They were struck.

When Judah came to the place looking out toward the wilderness, they looked at the multitude, and behold, the dead bodies were fallen to the earth, and there were none who escaped. The realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest all around.
