A certain man had two sons. The younger of them came unto his father one day and said, "Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me." So the father divided unto them his living.

Not many days after, the younger son gathered all together. He took his journey into a far country. The road was long and dusty beneath his worn sandals. The air grew strange, filled with savours and sights unknown. There in the far country, the younger son wasted his substance with riotous living.

He spent freely, eating and drinking, seeking pleasure and feasting. But when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land. The fields turned barren and empty. The people grew an hungred. The young man began to be in want, his raiment tattered and his purse empty.

In his need, he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed swine. Hunger gnawed at him as he stood in the mire, compassed about with the stench and noise of the swine. He would fain have filled his belly with the husks that they did eat, and no man gave unto him.

He came to himself. "How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare," he thought, "and I perish with hunger! I will arise and go to my father. I will say unto him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.'"

He arose straightway and set forth upon the homeward way. His feet were sore, his raiment soiled and rent, the road home stretching long before him. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran. His footsteps smote the road. He fell on his neck, and kissed him.

The son began, "Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son."

But the father said unto his servants, "Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet: And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry: For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found." And they began to be merry. Music filled the house. The savour of a rich feast drifted through every chamber.

Now the elder son was in the field. As he came nigh unto the house, he heard musick and dancing. He called one of the servants and inquired what these things meant. The servant answered, "Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound."

The elder son was angry, and would not go in. His father therefore came out, and intreated him. But he answered his father, "Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends: But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf."

The father said unto him, "Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine. It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found."
