David again gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. David arose, and went with all the people who were with him, from Baale Judah, to bring up from there God's ark, which is called by the Name, even the name of the Lord of Armies who sits above the cherubim.

They set God's ark on a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was on the hill. Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart. They brought it out of the house of Abinadab which was on the hill, with God's ark; and Ahio went before the ark.

David and all the house of Israel played before the Lord with all kinds of instruments made of cypress wood, with harps, with stringed instruments, with tambourines, with castanets, and with cymbals.

When they came to the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah reached for God's ark, and took hold of it; for the cattle stumbled. The Lord's anger burned against Uzzah, and God struck him there for his error; and he died there by God's ark.

David was displeased, because the Lord had broken out against Uzzah, and he called that place Perez Uzzah to this day. David was afraid of the Lord that day, and he said, "How could the Lord's ark come to me?"

So David would not move the Lord's ark to be with him in David's city; but David carried it aside into the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite. The Lord's ark remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite three months; and the Lord blessed Obed-Edom and all his house.

It was told king David, "The Lord has blessed the house of Obed-Edom, and all that belongs to him, because of God's ark."

So David went and brought up God's ark from the house of Obed-Edom into David's city with joy. When those who bore the Lord's ark had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fattened calf. David danced before the Lord with all his might; and David was clothed in a linen ephod.

So David and all the house of Israel brought up the Lord's ark with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet. They brought in the Lord's ark, and set it in its place, in the middle of the tent that David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord.

When David had finished offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord of Armies. He gave to all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, both to men and women, to everyone a cake of bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins. So all the people departed, each to his own house.
