One told Joseph, “Behold, thy father is sick.” Joseph took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. When Jacob was told that his son Joseph was coming, Israel strengthened himself and sat upon the bed.

Jacob told Joseph how God Almighty had appeared unto him at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed him, promising to make him fruitful and multiply him, to make of him a multitude of people, and to give the land to his seed after him for an everlasting possession. Now Joseph’s two sons, born in Egypt before Jacob came, should be his own: “Ephraim and Manasseh, as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.” The issue born to Joseph after them should be Joseph’s. Jacob also recalled how Rachel had died by him in the land of Canaan on the way from Padan, when there was but a little way to come unto Ephrath, and how he buried her there in the way of Ephrath, the same is Beth-lehem.

Israel beheld Joseph’s sons and asked, “Who are these?” Joseph answered, “They are my sons, whom God hath given me in this place.” “Bring them, I pray thee, unto me,” Israel said, “and I will bless them.” The eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see. Joseph brought the lads near, and Israel kissed them and embraced them. “I had not thought to see thy face,” he said unto Joseph, “and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.”

Joseph set Ephraim toward Israel’s left hand and Manasseh toward Israel’s right hand. But Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it upon Ephraim’s head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh’s head, guiding his hands wittingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn. He blessed Joseph: God, before whom his fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed him all his life long unto this day, the Angel which redeemed him from all evil, would bless the lads, and they should grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.

When Joseph saw his father’s right hand upon Ephraim’s head, it displeased him, and he held up his father’s hand to remove it unto Manasseh’s head. “Not so, my father: for this is the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.” His father refused. “I know it, my son, I know it: he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he.” So he blessed them that day—in them should Israel bless, saying, “God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh”—and he set Ephraim before Manasseh.

Israel said unto Joseph, “Behold, I die: but God shall be with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.” And he gave Joseph one portion above his brethren, which he took out of the hand of the Amorite with his sword and with his bow.
