Someone told Joseph, “Behold, your father is sick.” Joseph took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. When Jacob was told that his son Joseph was coming, Israel strengthened himself and sat up on the bed.

Jacob told Joseph how God Almighty had appeared to him at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed him, promising to make him fruitful and multiply him, to make of him a company of peoples, and to give the land to his offspring after him for an everlasting possession. Now Joseph’s two sons, born in Egypt before Jacob came, would be his own: “Ephraim and Manasseh, even as Reuben and Simeon, will be mine.” Any offspring born to Joseph after them would be Joseph’s. Jacob also recalled how Rachel had died beside him on the way from Paddan, when there was still some distance to Ephrath, and how he buried her there on the way to Ephrath, also called Bethlehem.

Israel saw Joseph’s sons and asked, “Who are these?” Joseph answered, “They are my sons, whom God has given me here.” “Please bring them to me,” Israel said, “and I will bless them.” His eyes were dim for age, so that he could not see well. Joseph brought the boys near, and Israel kissed them and embraced them. “I didn’t think I would see your face,” he said to Joseph, “and behold, God has let me see your offspring also.”

Joseph placed Ephraim toward Israel’s left hand and Manasseh toward Israel’s right hand. But Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it on the head of Ephraim, the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh’s head, guiding his hands knowingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn. He blessed Joseph: the God before whom his fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who had fed him all his life long to this day, the angel who had redeemed him from all evil, would bless the boys, and they would grow into a multitude on the earth.

When Joseph saw his father’s right hand on Ephraim’s head, it displeased him, and he held up his father’s hand to move it to Manasseh’s head. “Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn.” His father refused. “I know, my son, I know. He also will become a people, and he also will be great. However, his younger brother will be greater than he.” So he blessed them that day—in them Israel would bless, saying, “God make you as Ephraim and as Manasseh”—and he set Ephraim before Manasseh.

Israel said to Joseph, “Behold, I am dying, but God will be with you, and bring you again to the land of your fathers.” And he gave Joseph one portion above his brothers, which he took out of the hand of the Amorite with his sword and with his bow.
