When Mordecai perceived all that was done, he rent his clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and cried with a loud and a bitter cry. The decree of the king had gone forth, and the people of the Jews were marked for destruction in every province.

Esther's maids and her chamberlains came and told her, and the queen was exceedingly grieved. She sent raiment to clothe Mordecai, but he received it not. Then she called for Hatach, one of the king's chamberlains, whom he had appointed to attend upon her, and gave him a commandment to Mordecai, to know what it was, and why it was.

Mordecai told Hatach all that had befallen him, and the sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the king's treasuries for the destruction of the Jews. He gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that was given at Shushan to destroy them. He said, "Shew it unto Esther, and charge her that she should go in unto the king, to make supplication unto him, and to make request before him for her people."

Hatach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai. Then Esther sent word again unto Mordecai, saying, "All the king's servants, and the people of the king's provinces, do know, that whosoever, whether man or woman, shall come unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one law of his to put him to death, except such to whom the king shall hold out the golden sceptre, that he may live. I have not been called to come in unto the king these thirty days."

When Mordecai heard her words, he answered, "Think not with thyself that thou shalt escape in the king's house, more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place; but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed: and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?"

Then Esther bade them return Mordecai this answer. She said, "Go, gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day: I also and my maidens will fast likewise; and so will I go in unto the king, which is not according to the law: and if I perish, I perish."

So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.
