When Mordecai learned all that was done, he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth with ashes. He went out into the middle of the city, and cried with a loud and bitter cry. The decree of the king had gone out, and the people of the Jews were marked for destruction in every province.

Esther's maids and her eunuchs came and told her, and the queen was greatly grieved. She sent garments to clothe Mordecai, but he did not receive them. Then she called for Hathach, one of the king's eunuchs whom he had appointed to attend her, and she sent him to Mordecai to know what this was, and why it was.

Mordecai told Hathach all that had happened to him, and the exact sum of money that Haman had promised to pay to the king's treasuries for the destruction of the Jews. He gave him a copy of the writing of the decree that had been given out at Susa to destroy them. He said, "Show it to Esther, and charge her that she should go in to the king to make supplication to him, and to make request before him for her people."

Hathach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai. Then Esther sent word again to Mordecai, saying, "All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know that whoever, whether man or woman, comes to the king into the inner court without being called, there is one law for him: that he be put to death, except those to whom the king might hold out the golden scepter, that he may live. I have not been called to come in to the king these thirty days."

When Mordecai heard her words, he answered, "Don't think to yourself that you will escape in the king's house any more than all the Jews. For if you remain silent now, then relief and deliverance will come to the Jews from another place, but you and your father's house will perish. Who knows if you haven't come to the kingdom for such a time as this?"

Then Esther asked them to return this answer to Mordecai. She said, "Go, gather together all the Jews who are present in Susa, and fast for me. Don't eat or drink three days, night or day. I and my maidens will also fast in the same way. Then I will go in to the king, which is against the law. If I perish, I perish."

So Mordecai went his way and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.
