The child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli. The word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision.

Eli was laid down in his place. His eyes had begun to wax dim, that he could not see. The lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was laid down to sleep in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was.

And the Lord called Samuel.

And Samuel said, "Here am I."

And he ran unto Eli, and said, "Here am I; for thou calledst me."

And Eli said, "I called not; lie down again." And he went and lay down.

And the Lord called yet again, "Samuel."

And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here am I; for thou didst call me."

And Eli answered, "I called not, my son; lie down again."

Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him.

And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here am I; for thou didst call me."

And Eli perceived that the Lord had called the child. Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, "Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth."

So Samuel went and lay down in his place.

And the Lord came, and stood, and called as at other times, "Samuel, Samuel."

Then Samuel answered, "Speak; for thy servant heareth."

And the Lord said unto Samuel, "Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle. In that day I will perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even unto the end. For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not. And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering for ever."

And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of the Lord. And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision.

Then Eli called Samuel, and said, "Samuel, my son."

And Samuel answered, "Here am I."

And Eli said, "What is the thing that the Lord hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me."

And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him.

And Eli said, "It is the Lord: let him do what seemeth him good."

And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. And all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord.
