Jacob dwelt in the land of Canaan with his twelve sons. Of all his sons, he loved Joseph the most. Joseph was seventeen years old, and helped to feed the flock.

Jacob made Joseph a special coat — a coat of many colours. When the brethren saw it, their faces hardened. Their father loved Joseph more than any of them. They could not speak peaceably unto him.

Joseph dreamed a dream. He told it unto his brethren. "We were binding sheaves in the field. My sheaf arose, and your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf."

The brethren stared upon him. "Shalt thou indeed reign over us?" They hated him yet the more.

Joseph dreamed yet another dream. "The sun and the moon and eleven stars made obeisance unto me."

Even his father frowned. "Shall we indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee?" But Jacob kept the saying in mind.

It came to pass that Jacob sent Joseph to see his brethren near unto Shechem. Joseph put on his coat of many colours and went forth. A man told him they were gone to Dothan. Joseph kept walking.

The brethren saw him afar off. They knew the coat. "Behold, this dreamer cometh. Let us slay him, and cast him into some pit."

Reuben, the firstborn, said, "Shed no blood. Cast him into this pit." He purposed to deliver Joseph after.

When Joseph was come, they laid hold on him, stript him of his coat, and cast him into a deep empty pit, wherein was no water.

The brethren sat down to eat bread. They beheld a company of merchantmen journeying unto Egypt — camels laden with spicery.

Judah said, "Let us sell him unto the Ishmeelites." They drew Joseph up out of the pit, and sold him for twenty pieces of silver. The merchantmen bare him toward Egypt.

The brethren killed a kid of the goats, and dipped Joseph's coat in the blood. They brought it unto Jacob. "This have we found. Know now whether it be thy son's coat or no."

Jacob knew it. "It is my son's coat! An evil beast hath devoured him!" He rent his clothes, put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned many days. None could comfort him.

The merchantmen came into Egypt, and sold Joseph unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh.
