And the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

The commandment was exact. Of every clean beast, sevens, the male and his female. Of beasts that are not clean, two. Of the fowls of the air also by sevens, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth. For yet seven days, said the Lord, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights, he said; and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.

And Noah did all that the Lord had commanded him.

Six hundred years old was Noah when the flood of waters came upon the earth. He went into the ark, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him; and the beasts came unto him two and two, the male and the female — of clean and of unclean, of fowls and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth — as God had commanded.

And the Lord shut him in.

After the seven days, on the seventeenth day of the second month, were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened. And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

The waters increased and bare up the ark, till it was lift up above the earth. The waters prevailed, and the ark went upon the face of the waters. And still the waters prevailed exceedingly, until all the high hills under the whole heaven were covered; fifteen cubits upward did the waters stand.

And all flesh died that moved upon the earth — fowl, and cattle, and beast, and every creeping thing, and every man. Every living substance was destroyed from off the face of the ground. And Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.

An hundred and fifty days the waters prevailed upon the earth.

And God remembered Noah, and every living thing that was with him in the ark. God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged. The fountains of the deep were stopped, and the windows of heaven, and the rain from heaven was restrained. And in the seventh month the ark rested upon the mountains of Ararat.

The waters decreased continually, until the tops of the mountains were seen.

Then Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made, and sent forth a raven, which went to and fro until the waters were dried up from off the earth. He sent forth also a dove, to see if the waters were abated from off the ground. But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and returned unto him, for the waters were yet on the face of the whole earth. And he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.

He stayed yet other seven days, and sent the dove forth again. In the evening she came in to him, and, lo, an olive leaf was in her mouth, plucked off. So Noah knew the waters were abated from the earth. Seven days more he stayed, and sent her forth; and she returned not unto him again.

And Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.

And God spake unto Noah, saying, Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee. Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of all flesh, that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him; and every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl went forth out of the ark, after their kinds.

Then Noah builded an altar unto the Lord, and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings upon it. And the Lord smelled a sweet savour, and said in his heart that he would not again curse the ground any more for man's sake, though the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither would he again smite any more every thing living, as he had done. While the earth remaineth — seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night — shall not cease.
