The Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

Of every clean beast Noah was to take sevens, the male and his female; of beasts not clean, two; and of the fowls of the air by sevens, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth. For yet seven days, said the Lord, and rain would fall forty days and forty nights, and every living substance would be destroyed from off the face of the earth.

And Noah did according unto all that the Lord commanded him. He went into the ark, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him; and the beasts came unto him two and two, the male and the female, as God had commanded.

And the Lord shut him in.

After the seven days were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened. The rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights. The waters increased and bare up the ark, and it went upon the face of the waters, until all the high hills under the whole heaven were covered.

And all flesh died that moved upon the earth. Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark. An hundred and fifty days the waters prevailed upon the earth.

And God remembered Noah, and every living thing with him. He made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged, and the ark rested upon the mountains of Ararat.

Noah sent forth a raven, which went to and fro. He sent forth a dove, but she found no rest for the sole of her foot, and returned unto him. And he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in. After seven days he sent her forth again, and she came in to him in the evening, and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf plucked off. Yet other seven days, and she returned not again any more.

Then Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and the face of the ground was dry. And God said, Go forth of the ark, thou and all thy house, and bring forth every living thing that is with thee, that they may be fruitful and multiply upon the earth.

So Noah went forth, with his household and every beast after their kinds. He builded an altar unto the Lord, and offered burnt offerings upon it. And the Lord smelled a sweet savour, and said in his heart that he would not again smite every thing living, as he had done. While the earth remaineth — seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night — shall not cease.
