Within the vail was the holy place, and upon the ark the mercy seat, where the Lord appeared in the cloud. After the two sons of Aaron died, when they offered before the Lord, the Lord spake unto Moses: Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times into the holy place within the vail, that he die not.

Thus was Aaron to come. He should wash his flesh in water, and put on the holy linen garments. He should bring a young bullock for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering; and of the people two goats and a ram.

And he should cast lots upon the two goats: one lot for the Lord, and the other for the goat to be sent away. The goat on which the Lord's lot fell he should offer for a sin offering; but the other should be presented alive, to be let go into the wilderness.

First Aaron made an atonement for himself and for his house. He killed the bullock, and took a censer of burning coals and his hands full of sweet incense within the vail, that the cloud of the incense might cover the mercy seat, that he die not. And he sprinkled of the blood with his finger upon the mercy seat, and before it seven times.

Then he killed the goat of the sin offering that was for the people, and did with his blood as he had done with the blood of the bullock. So he made an atonement for the holy place, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions in all their sins; and so did he for the tabernacle of the congregation. And he went out unto the altar, and put of the blood upon the horns of it round about, and cleansed it.

And when he had made an end of atoning, he brought the live goat. And Aaron laid both his hands upon the head of the live goat, and confessed over him all the iniquities and transgressions and sins of the children of Israel, putting them upon the head of the goat, and sent him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness. And the goat did bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited; and he let go the goat in the wilderness.
