Abijah the son of Jeroboam became sick. Jeroboam said to his wife, “Please get up and disguise yourself, so that you won’t be recognized as Jeroboam’s wife. Go to Shiloh.” Ahijah the prophet was there, the one who had said that Jeroboam would be king over this people. She was to take ten loaves of bread, some cakes, and a jar of honey, and Ahijah would tell her what would become of the child.

Jeroboam’s wife did so and came to Ahijah’s house. Ahijah could not see, for his eyes were set by reason of his age. But Yahweh had told him that Jeroboam’s wife was coming to inquire about her son, and that she would pretend to be another woman. So when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet at the door, he said, “Come in, Jeroboam’s wife! Why do you pretend to be another? For I am sent to you with heavy news.”

She was to go and tell Jeroboam what Yahweh, the God of Israel, said. Yahweh had exalted him from among the people and made him prince over Israel. He had torn the kingdom away from David’s house and given it to him. Yet Jeroboam had not been like Yahweh’s servant David, who kept his commandments and followed him with all his heart. Jeroboam had done evil above all who were before him, had made for himself other gods and molten images, and had cast Yahweh behind his back. Therefore evil would come on the house of Jeroboam, and it would be utterly swept away. The dogs would eat whoever belonged to Jeroboam who died in the city, and the birds of the sky whoever died in the field, for Yahweh had spoken it.

Then Ahijah said, “Arise therefore, and go to your house. When your feet enter into the city, the child will die.” All Israel would mourn for him and bury him, for he only of Jeroboam would come to the grave, because in him there was found some good thing toward Yahweh. Moreover Yahweh would raise up a king who would cut off the house of Jeroboam, and Israel itself would one day be struck as a reed is shaken in the water, because of the sins Jeroboam had sinned and made Israel to sin.

Jeroboam’s wife arose and departed and came to Tirzah. As she came to the threshold of the house, the child died. All Israel buried him and mourned for him, according to Yahweh’s word spoken by his servant Ahijah the prophet. The rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he fought and how he reigned, were written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. Jeroboam reigned twenty two years; then he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his place.
