Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick. Jeroboam said to his wife, “Arise, I pray thee, and disguise thyself, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam; and get thee to Shiloh.” Ahijah the prophet was there, which told him that he should be king over this people. She was to take ten loaves, and cracknels, and a cruse of honey, and Ahijah would tell her what should become of the child.

Jeroboam’s wife did so and came to the house of Ahijah. Ahijah could not see, for his eyes were set by reason of his age. But the Lord had told him that the wife of Jeroboam was coming to ask a thing of him for her son, and that she would feign herself to be another woman. So when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet at the door, he said, “Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam; why feignest thou thyself to be another? for I am sent to thee with heavy tidings.”

She was to go and tell Jeroboam what the Lord God of Israel said. The Lord had exalted him from among the people and made him prince over Israel. He had rent the kingdom away from the house of David and given it to him. Yet Jeroboam had not been as the Lord’s servant David, who kept his commandments and followed him with all his heart. Jeroboam had done evil above all that were before him, had made him other gods and molten images, and had cast the Lord behind his back. Therefore evil would come upon the house of Jeroboam, and its remnant would be taken away. Him that died of Jeroboam in the city the dogs would eat, and him that died in the field the fowls of the air, for the Lord had spoken it.

Then Ahijah said, “Arise thou therefore, get thee to thine own house: and when thy feet enter into the city, the child shall die.” All Israel would mourn for him and bury him, for he only of Jeroboam would come to the grave, because in him there was found some good thing toward the Lord. Moreover the Lord would raise him up a king who would cut off the house of Jeroboam, and Israel itself would be smitten as a reed shaken in the water, because of the sins Jeroboam sinned and made Israel to sin.

Jeroboam’s wife arose and departed and came to Tirzah. When she came to the threshold of the door, the child died. They buried him, and all Israel mourned for him, according to the word of the Lord spoken by the hand of his servant Ahijah the prophet. The rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred and how he reigned, were written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. Jeroboam reigned two and twenty years, and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his stead.
