When Eve brought forth her firstborn, she called his name Cain, saying, I have gotten a man from the Lord. And afterward she bare his brother Abel. As the two grew, Abel became a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.

In process of time it came to pass that each brought an offering unto the Lord. Cain brought of the fruit of the ground that he had tilled; but Abel brought of the firstlings of his flock, and of the fat thereof — the first and the best of all that he had. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and his offering; but toward Cain and his gift he showed no such regard. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

And the Lord saw it, and came unto him with a question. Why art thou wroth, and wherefore is thy face fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? But if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door; its desire is unto thee, yet thou art to rule over it.

But the warning turned him not. And Cain spake unto Abel his brother, Let us go into the field. And when they were come thither, Cain rose up against his brother, and slew him.

Then came the Lord again with a question. Where is Abel thy brother? And Cain answered, I know not: am I my brother's keeper? And the Lord said, What is this that thou hast done? The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. Behold, thou art cursed from that ground which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood at thy hand. Henceforth, when thou tillest it, it shall not yield thee her strength; and thou shalt be a fugitive and a wanderer upon the earth.

And Cain broke beneath the word. My punishment, said he, is greater than I can bear. This day thou hast driven me from the face of the earth, and from thy presence shall I be hidden; a wanderer must I be, and whosoever findeth me shall slay me. Therefore, said he, whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And he set a mark upon Cain, lest any that found him should kill him.

So Cain went out from the presence of the Lord, and dwelt eastward of Eden, in the land of Nod.
