David numbered the people that were with him, and set captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them. He sent them forth in three parts — a third under the hand of Joab, a third under Abishai his brother, and a third under Ittai the Gittite. The king would have gone forth himself, but the people said, Thou shalt not go forth: for thou art worth ten thousand of us; it is better that thou succour us out of the city. So the king stood by the gate as the people came out by hundreds and by thousands. And to Joab and Abishai and Ittai, in the hearing of all the people, he gave one charge. Deal gently, for my sake, with the young man Absalom.

The battle was in the wood of Ephraim, and Israel was smitten there before the servants of David; and the wood devoured more people that day than the sword devoured.

Absalom rode upon his mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven and the earth; and the mule that was under him went away.

A certain man saw it, and told Joab, saying, Behold, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak. And Joab said, Why then didst thou not smite him there to the ground? I would have given thee silver and a girdle. But the man said, Though I should receive a thousand pieces of silver, yet would I not put forth mine hand against the king's son: for in our hearing the king charged thee, saying, Beware that none touch the young man Absalom. Then said Joab, I may not tarry thus with thee. He took three darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak; and ten young men that bare Joab's armour compassed about and slew him. And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing after Israel; and they cast Absalom into a great pit in the wood, and laid a very great heap of stones upon him.

Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok, Let me run and bear the king tidings. But Joab said, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day; for the king's son is dead. And he sent a Cushite: Go tell the king what thou hast seen. Yet Ahimaaz besought him still, Let me also run. And Joab said, Run. So Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, and overran the Cushite.

David sat between the two gates, and the watchman went up to the roof over the gate, and lifted up his eyes, and behold a man running alone. If he be alone, said the king, there is tidings in his mouth. And the watchman saw another man running, and said, Behold another. And the king said, He also bringeth tidings. The running of the foremost, said the watchman, is like the running of Ahimaaz; he is a good man, and cometh with good tidings.

Ahimaaz cried, All is well, and fell down before the king with his face to the earth. Blessed be the Lord thy God, said he, which hath delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against my lord the king. And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? Ahimaaz answered, I saw a great tumult when Joab sent me, but I knew not what it was. And the king said, Turn aside, and stand here.

Then came the Cushite. Tidings, my lord the king, said he: for the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee. And the king said unto him, Is the young man Absalom safe? And the Cushite answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all that rise against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is.

The king said no more. He went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son!
