It was the first day of the week, the third day since the crucifixion. Two of the disciples — one named Cleopas, and another whose name hath not been given unto us — set forth from Jerusalem to go unto a village named Emmaus, about threescore furlongs away. As they walked, they talked of all the things that had come to pass. And a stranger drew near and went with them.

And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs.

And they talked together of all these things which had happened.

And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.

But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.

And he said unto them,

"What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?"

And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, "Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days?"

And he said unto them,

"What things?"

And they said unto him, "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:

And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him.

But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done.

Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre;

and when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive.

And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they beheld not."

And the three of them walked on together toward the village. The afternoon sun lay across the country road, and the disciples bare their grief in their words, and the stranger walked between them; and the recognition that would come at the breaking of bread was yet ahead of them at the inn at Emmaus. And so it was in the days when the two went from Jerusalem unto the village of Emmaus.
