It was the first day of the week, the third day since the crucifixion. Two of the disciples — one named Cleopas, and another whose name has not been given to us — set out from Jerusalem to go to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles away. As they walked, they talked of all the things that had happened. And a stranger drew near and went with them.

Behold, two of them were going that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was sixty stadia from Jerusalem.

They talked with each other about all of these things which had happened.

While they talked and questioned together, Jesus himself came near, and went with them.

But their eyes were kept from recognizing him.

He said to them,

"What are you talking about as you walk, and are sad?"

One of them, named Cleopas, answered him, "Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem who doesn't know the things which have happened there in these days?"

He said to them,

"What things?"

They said to him, "The things concerning Jesus, the Nazarene, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people;

and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him.

But we were hoping that it was he who would redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened.

Also, certain women of our company amazed us, having arrived early at the tomb;

and when they didn't find his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive.

Some of us went to the tomb, and found it just like the women had said, but they didn't see him."

And the three of them walked on together toward the village. The afternoon sun lay across the country road, and the disciples carried their grief in their words, and the stranger walked between them; and the recognition that would come at the breaking of the bread was still ahead of them at the inn at Emmaus. And so it was in the days when the two went from Jerusalem to the village of Emmaus.
