Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel. Two thousand abode with him in Michmash and mount Beth-el, while a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. The rest of the people Saul sent every man unto his tent.

Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines at Geba, and the Philistines heard thereof. Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, “Let the Hebrews hear.” Israel heard of the attack and that the nation was had in abomination with the Philistines. The people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.

The Philistines gathered themselves to fight Israel with thirty thousand chariots, six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand upon the sea shore. They pitched in Michmash, eastward from Beth-aven.

When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait and distressed, they hid in caves, thickets, rocks, high places, and pits. Some Hebrews went over Jordan into the lands of Gad and Gilead. Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.

Saul tarried seven days, according to the set time Samuel had appointed. Samuel came not to Gilgal within that time, and the people were scattered from Saul. Then Saul commanded that the burnt offering and peace offerings be brought unto him. Saul offered the burnt offering.

As soon as he had made an end of offering it, behold, Samuel came. Saul went out to salute him. Samuel asked, “What hast thou done?”

Saul answered by naming what he had seen: the people were scattered, Samuel came not within the appointed days, and the Philistines gathered at Michmash. Saul said he expected the Philistines to come down upon him at Gilgal before he had made supplication unto the Lord. Therefore, he said, he forced himself and offered the burnt offering.

Samuel told Saul that he had done foolishly and had not kept the commandment of the Lord his God. Samuel said the Lord would otherwise have established Saul’s kingdom upon Israel for ever. Now his kingdom would not continue. The Lord had sought a man after his own heart and commanded him to be captain over his people, because Saul had not kept the Lord’s commandment.

Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin. Saul numbered the people present with him. There were about six hundred men.
