After certain days, king Agrippa and Bernice came unto Cesarea to salute Festus. They abode there many days, and Festus declared Paul’s cause unto the king. He said that Felix had left a certain man in bonds. When Festus was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and elders of the Jews informed him concerning Paul and desired judgment against him.

Festus told Agrippa that he had answered according to the manner of the Romans. No accused man was to be delivered to die before he had his accusers face to face and had licence to answer for himself concerning the crime laid against him. When Paul’s accusers came thither, Festus made no delay. On the morrow he sat upon the judgment seat and commanded Paul to be brought forth.

The accusers stood up, but Festus said that they brought none accusation of such things as he had supposed. Rather, they had certain questions concerning their own superstition and concerning one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive. Festus said that he doubted how to enquire of such matters. He asked whether Paul would go unto Jerusalem to be judged there. Paul appealed to be reserved unto the hearing of Augustus, so Festus commanded him to be kept until he might send him to Cesar.

Agrippa told Festus that he would hear the man himself. Festus answered, “To morrow thou shalt hear him.”

Agrippa and Bernice entered the place of hearing with great pomp, together with the chief captains and principal men of the city. At Festus’ commandment Paul was brought forth. Festus addressed Agrippa and all who were present. He said that the multitude of the Jews had dealt with him concerning Paul, both at Jerusalem and at Cesarea, crying that Paul ought not to live any longer.

Yet Festus said that he found Paul had committed nothing worthy of death. Because Paul himself had appealed unto Augustus, Festus determined to send him. His difficulty was that he had no certain thing to write unto his lord. Therefore he brought Paul before them, and specially before Agrippa, that an examination might give him somewhat to write. Festus judged it unreasonable to send a prisoner and not signify the crimes laid against him.
